My piece begins with an authentic tennis game with rackets wired for transmission of sound. The sound of the game will control the lights. The game's end is the moment the hall is totally dark. The darkness is illu­sionary. The hall is flooded with infra-red (so far invisible to the human eye). A modestly choreographed cast of from 300 to 500 people will enter and be ob­ served and projected by in­frared television on large screens for the audience. This is the limit of the realization of the piece to date.
Tennis is movement. Put in the context of  theater  it is a formal dance improvisa­tion. The unlikely use of the game to control the lights and to perform as an orches­tra interests me. The con­flict of not being able to see an event that is taking place right in front of one except through a reproduction is the sort of double exposure of action. A screen of light and a screen of darkness.

open score
by: Robert Rauschenberg
performance engineer: Jim McGee
cast: Frank Stella
Mimi Kanarek
a group of 500 people.

The support of the Down­ town Community School is responsible for the large cast in Open Score. Through the management of Marilyn Wood and the cooperation of parents and interested par­ties, the cast has been gen­erously collected. The sources are varied and rich in intentions.    The result of their voluntary involvement reaps the Downtown Com­munity School $1000 for a scholarship fund. I would like to draw attention to the fact that all the names were not available at the time this program went to press. They should all be personally re­corded, but the next best thing to do is to report that they well represent the world (our society) and are locally from such varied organizations  as  high school science classes,   drama   organizations , senior citizens groups, individual artists, reformed addicts' club and a New York fencing club. I am touched by the positive support, work, art, love and people.


Steve Paxton with tennis racquet testing closed-circuit
tv system. Photo Bob Rauschenberg