kisses	sweeter	than wine
by: Oyvind Fahlstrom
performance engineer: Harold Hodges


direction: 
Soren Brunes
Oyvind Fahlstrom

production assistants:
Letty Lou Eisenhauer Ulla Lyttkens
props: Alfonse Schilling 
performers: Bob Breer
Frances Breer
Letty Lou Eisenhauer 
Bruce Glushakow 
John Glover
Tom Gormley
Jim Hardy 
Ed Iverson 
Kosugi 
Larry Leitch 
Les Levine
Marjorie Strider 
Bob Schuler
Ulla Wiggen

tapes: Sveriges Radios, Stockholm
WBAI-NVC
films: " Creatoin of the Humanoids" courtesy W. Barry, Genie Productions Inc. and Medallion Pictures;
"Acqua Sangemini" courtesy Ditta Agrippa, Rome;
Educational Films
courtesy AT&T NYC 

chemicals: Nuclear Research Associates
Associates

ln my piece, I approach the new technology on several levels. Chemicals developed by the new technology permit me to use elements formoerly not possible-an object gradually chang足ing color, "snow bubbles" rising from the ground, people enveloped by "clouds." By utilizing our internal broadcasting system, I can have pillows sing out while they are bounced on the floor or thrown in the air. By utilizing our remote control system, I can have an actor pursued by an air足 borne object or direct the same object to approach floating targets.
On another level, my piece deals with machine-like qual足ities in people: robot-like people capable of memorizing enormous amounts of data or of making multi-digit calculations in their heads (as found in psychiatric literature): the risk of putting "robots" (narrow minds) in situations for which they are not "programmed" - i.e., crisis situations - and machines getting out of control. Juxtaposed with this are glimpses of everyday events and characters of the world of today. Bob Hope and Mao Tse Tung appear in New York city street demonstrations, for example. For this we will use films of an actual demonstration along with tapes of the reactions of the people who see it. Tape and film become a part of the piece. New York, China, Indonesia, the bottom of the sea, space, the world of the future (as seen in a science fiction movie) all are interwoven in足 to a triptych of slide, movie, and television screens. There's no explanation. The spectator  draws conclusions or not, as he chooses.
l think of it as initiation rites for a new medium. Total Theater.


Peter Hirsch and Oyvind Fahlstrom with ball designed
to carry bouncing sound source. Photo William Rivelli