-by: Lucinda Childs
performance engineer: Peter Hirsch

vehicle

cast: William Davis Alex Hay
slides by: Les Levine
Vehicle consists of ma­terials animate, inanimate, air-supported	(in one in­ tance), which can exist in a non-static state and be ob­served in increased dimen­sion as they come in contact with light and sound sources made available consistently or intermittedly	by radio signals through-out	the dance.
The   Doppler sonar has ultrasonic beam sources and a receiver. The beam emits frequencies at a level which is greater than our hearing capacity. A moving figure or object passing in front of the beam interrupts it and sends frequencies back to the re­ceiver of the sonar at a level determined by the velocity of the figure or object. What we hear is the proportional difference between the fre­quencies sent out and those returned through interrup­tion of the beam, and the re­sulting reduction in the fre­quency level is what makes the sonar audible. Middle C (as we know it in music) is supposed to occur at approx­imately three feet per second of  movement.   This device, however, picks up movement of any duration or speed at the exact time that it begins or ends.
The ground effect ma­chine is made from a General Motors refrigerator part which is designed as a plat­ form to raise the 440 lb. weight of a refrigerator a fraction of an inch off the ground by the intake of air from a vacuum cleaner, thus making it possible to move the 440 lbs. with ease. The engineer, Per Biorn, installed two vacuum cleaner motors onto this platform so that I am in effect on a cushion of air when I use it.
I intend to utilize these de­ vices in a set of circum­stances as  instruments which may or may not be efficient to the notion of com­pleting anything. I do not feel that dance should be limited to the display of physical ex­ertion alone; anything that can exist in a non-static state for a certain duration of time is of interest to me. My ideas are generally derived from the laws which govern the materials themselves and I attempt to allow the qualities and limitations of materials to be exposed in different situations.

Alex Hay and Lucinda Childs with ground effect machine at Berkeley Height s School
rehearsal.