PAGE TWO
Our plans are as follows:

11 performances, from October 13 - 23, 1966. The Festival will be held at the Armory at Lexington Avenue and 25th Street, a marvelous space for our performances. The budget is $50,000, covering the cost of designing and building the technical equipment, production costs, rental of the Armory, lighting stage expenses, insurance fees and the like.

We anticipate a minimum audience of 10,000 people. This is a conservative estimate, since there will be thorough press coverage. LIFE, ESQUIRE, and other national magazines plan feature stories. Of course, the art, dance/music and science/engineering publications will give us very heavy before and after coverage. Some interest has been expressed by a television network for a special on the Festival, and several local TV stations plan some coverage. In addition, a new environmental publication called BROADSIDE, published by Marion Javits and Clay Felker, will devote its entire first issue (guest edited by me) to the Festival.

Even with capacity crowds, however, the Festival is not a “commercial” venture. Any profits will go towards a new foundation for the development our ideas. Art critics and philosophers have recently become excited by the interaction of the two formerly opposite poles of art and technology. Scientists and artists have much to learn from each other and their exchange has unknown possibilities. This inter-discipline activity is inevitable, but we feel we can give it an immediate push-in the right direction. X

As LIFE magazine says in its current issue, the Festival "which will take place in the same Armory the 1913 Armory Show, may go down in art history as another landmark.” In my opinion, LIFE was being too cautious.  The Festival will be a unique avant garde occurrence. New ground needs to be broken and it should be here in New York, the vital center of art and technology.

Vera, I hope that you will share our enthusiasm and give us your financial support. Since we are pressed by time, I would appreciate your reactions as soon as possible.

With thanks in advance.