Martin: Stipend or fellowship. So I was in New York and doing that. Then after the first year, I applied for and was accepted to be a guide on a USIA [United States Information Agency] exhibition going to the Soviet Union. In 1959 there had been the first large American exhibition in Moscow, which presented aspects of American life to the Russian public—from art to fashion to industry and consumer goods. This was where [Vice President Richard M.] Nixon and [Soviet Premier Nikita S.] Khrushchev had a famous debate in the model American kitchen. Then there was an agreement to continue this kind of cultural exchange with a smaller exhibition that would travel to other cities in the Soviet Union. The first of these was called Plastics USA [1961], which was organized around all things manufactured by the plastics industry for use in industry, the home, recreation, et cetera. And there was a section called Plastics in Art, which allowed the exhibition organizers to get some abstract art into the Soviet Union. So it was, of course, somewhat propagandistic.
 I was already interested in art. My parents collected locally a little bit and I was already interested in art. I thought this would be a great section to be in. Even though my Russian was not that good, they decided to hire me, I guess, to show that not all the guides on the exhibition were spies. If your Russian isn’t so good, maybe you’re not a trained agent—
 Oh, I forgot! The summer before I started graduate school, I went on an Experiment in International Living trip to the Soviet Union. The usual program of Experiment in International Living, based in Putney, Vermont, was you stay in a house with a family and then a whole group travels in the country, each with the kid in the family they stayed with. Well, of course, you couldn’t do that in the Soviet Union. But we were a group and we did travel around and we stayed for a month at a youth camp on the Black Sea in Sochi. So I did that, so I had this experience being in the Soviet Union.