Martin: It was the first performance at the Reuben Gallery in the fall of ’59. People began calling Anita Reuben [née Rubin], who owned the gallery, and her husband at the time, Max Baker, who was handling publicity, and asking, “When’s the next happening?” Max Baker liked the word and they began to use the word for all of the performances the artists were doing from then on. Red Grooms did, I believe, “plays”; Whitman always talked about “theater performances” or “theater pieces”; Oldenburg called his performance series Ray Gun Theater; and Jim Dine also talked about “painter’s theater.” Their works always had a script or score and was always a distinction between the audience and the performers, even if the action sometimes surrounded the audience, as in Whitman’s Flower when some actions took place behind the rows of audience seats, or in Night Time Sky, where the audience sat in a large white cloth dome and events took place in alcoves above their heads and films were projected on the dome walls. Or in Oldenburg’s Ray Gun Theater, the audience was lined up along the walls in a very long narrow space. Kaprow went on to do pieces where he involved the audience. For instance he carried people into the large waiting room at Grand Central Station [New York; Calling, 1965]. If you want to use the word Happenings, there is a tradition and a trajectory that Kaprow started and pursued very different from the others. These other artists really were talking about theater and a new form of theater. So that’s why I don’t call them Happenings.
 Billy has talked about working with Claes—that Claes would write a script, and this was Ray Gun Theater when he did the series, then people would rehearse during the week and perform it on the weekends. And then next week there’d be a new script. Dine’s was more psychological, about himself a lot. But Whitman always said you could redo his pieces. He talks about scripts or scores with the idea of performing them in the future. His was a form of non-narrative, image- based theater. This is why I say the difference. Now, unfortunately, [Mildred L.] Milly Glimcher gave in and called her book Happenings[: New York, 1958–1963, 2012]. I like to make the distinction and I think the artists feel pretty strongly about it.