Martin: I wanted to work in television. I mean, I graduated—or at least finished—at Columbia in the fall/winter of ’65. I don’t quite remember what I did right after that. Probably looked for work. It was very cheap to live in New York and I had some money saved from the USIA exhibition time (there was nothing to spend money on in the Soviet Union at that time) and maybe the fellowship money and some help from parents.
 Just to get my chronology complete—even though it jumps ahead a little bit—we can do the details later. During the summer of 1966, I was working weekends for Bob Whitman, who was presenting two theater pieces at Circle in the Square Theatre [New York]. And that continued through 9 Evenings[: Theatre & Engineering, 1966] until I went to Ottawa for a few months to work on a history of the Russian Revolution. 1967 was the fifty-year anniversary of the Russian Revolution. Somehow I got hired to do research in Canada. I worked for a man named Moses Znaimer, who has gone on to start a local TV station, City TV, and Canada’s version of MTV and has become quite a media mogul. He’d gone to the Russian Institute at Harvard. Somehow, I think through my friend Connie Beezer, the administrative assistant at the Russian Institute at Columbia, I heard about his project, contacted him and was hired to do research for this multi- part series on the Russian Revolution and the Soviet Union, called Revolution Plus Fifty. I moved to Ottawa for that time period, the winter of 1966 into spring 1967. I remember that the last program in the series was to be an interview with Marshall McLuhan about possible futures for the Soviet Union that I regretfully had to miss, as I came back to New York to work on a show at CBS, a locally produced cultural program series called Eye on New York. The show I worked on was about the new art and was called “The Walls Come Tumbling Down” [1967].
 The executive producer was Merrill Brockway, who went on to PBS to be the great long-time director of the series Dance in America. The show did segments on Tony Smith, Marta Minujín, who was working with E.A.T. [Experiments in Art & Technology] engineer Per Biorn to make an interactive sculpture—a telephone booth called the Minuphone [1967]—and a segment on Rauschenberg when he was working on the Revolvers [1967].
 We filmed an interview with Bob and filmed the day when the Revolvers were delivered from the fabricator, Treitel-Gratz, and he and Brice Marden, who was his assistant at the time, assembled and saw them in action for the first time. This must have been March or April 1967.
 Then that summer I worked for Christophe de Menil on her performance series, Midsummer. And in the fall I worked several weeks for Channel Thirteen in New York, again doing research for a program on the history of the Russian Revolution. That brings me up to the time I went to work at E.A.T.
 Also, I have to say that at that time there were so many Bobs or Roberts around that we had to find ways to distinguish them: Bob Fagan, Bob Whitman, Bob Rauschenberg, [Robert] Bob Breer. I think I got to saying, “Robert” for Fagan, “Bob R.” for Rauschenberg, and “Whitman” and “Breer” for the other two.