Martin: No, none of that. There wasn’t a sense of that kind of collaboration for those performances. It was his piece. You’re working on it. You may contribute suggestions on how to do physical things. Often a lot of the preparation is figuring out how to do things—achieve the image he has in his mind. When that is going on Bob accepts suggestions readily. But if someone’s suggestion is not acceptable to him, he will just say, “That’s another piece.” But there’s no sense of, “It’s our piece together,” or anything like that. Even Simone, who worked with him and obviously contributed—and her persona was very strong—but it was never any sense of, “Oh, it’s Simone’s piece too.” In fact we were talking recently and saying that everything in Whitman’s pieces were part of the development of the image or images. The objects and the performers had the same functions—object as performer and performer as object to move or be projected on.
 The same was true of Bob R.’s performance pieces too. He had very worked-out ideas and actions of what he wanted and the performers worked according to his ideas. Of course, often these instructions left room for the performer to feel comfortable in the role and work out how best to do it. For example, in Linoleum [1966], Steve Paxton was lying down on a long board on wheels with a chicken-wire dome over it with chickens in the space with him and he was eating fried chicken. He wheeled his structure around the space. Bob himself had one activity to set down, one at a time, several “floats”—small white geometric-shaped sculptures by Robert Breer—that moved very, very slowly on the floor. He would draw a chalk line around one of the sculptures and then it would move away. A bit later in the piece, Bob would draw another chalk line around the float in its new position. I remember another performer, maybe Deborah or Alex, made a line on the floor using cooked spaghetti from a bowl in the lap of the woman sitting in an ornate chair—Simone Forti in the Washington production. Very strong images but no theatrical flourishes. Of course, everyone worked together to make the performances work and each contributed in his or her own way but there was clear authorship. It’s the nature of theater and of choreography, don’t you think?
 The idea of collaboration between artists and engineers came later and was articulated at the time of E.A.T. In fact, I remember—just talking about collaboration—I remember when I started working with Billy and with E.A.T., all of a sudden, they talked about “collaboration” and I found that word was very strange because the only way I had heard the word being used was in reference to World War II. And collaboration in that context was a negative word. I remember it took a while for me to get used to that word in that new context. It was Billy and Bob R. who used and developed the idea of one-to-one collaboration between artists and engineers. Bob R. in particular—Billy says that. He remembered that his first ideas about engineers working with artists was that the engineer would furnish the artists with a new palette. He used that metaphor. A palette for the artist. The new possibilities. He saw the engineer as offering the artist new possibilities.