Martin: There really is. Somebody who’s written about it and actually has brought it kind of up- to-date is Julia [E.] Robinson. It’s in a catalogue that she did, the last show she did. It was either in MACBA [Museu d’Art Contemporani de Barcelona] in Barcelona or [Museo Nacional Centro de Arte] Reina Sofía [Madrid], a show called New Realisms[: 1957–1962, Object Strategies Between Readymade and Spectacle, 2010; Madrid]. It was about that period, ’61 and ’63. She gets it about Whitman’s roots coming out of the theater. He’s the only one who really has persisted in making theater pieces. I mean, Claes did a new piece once in Venice in the eighties or nineties but essentially he worked in sculpture. Dine concentrated on painting and was the first of the group to move uptown, having been taken on by Martha Jackson Gallery. [Laughter] Then Bob Rauschenberg got more involved in doing performances. He, of course, had been working with Merce Cunningham since 1954 doing lights and costumes, and from 1962, with the dancers at the Judson Church, also doing lights. The story is that when Alice Denney, encouraged by Billy, organized a Pop art show, The Popular Image, in spring 1963 for the Washington Gallery of Modern Art in Washington, D.C., she included a concert of dances by members of the Judson Dance Theater, and in the announcement for the series, the Pop [Art] Festival, she had listed Bob [Rauschenberg] as choreographer. So he rose to the challenge and made Pelican, performed with Per Olof Ultvedt and himself on roller skates wearing those very large parachute “wings” on their backs and Cunningham dancer, Carolyn Brown, in point shoes at a roller rink in Washington, D.C. He continued doing performances during ’63 and ’64, especially working with Steve Paxton and Alex and Deborah Hay. During Merce Cunningham’s world tour, the four of them did performances in some of the places the company went—at the Sogetsu [Art Center] theater in Tokyo and at Moderna Museet in Stockholm, where Pontus Hultén organized what he called Five New York Evenings, and where Bob R. did Elgin Tie [1964], where a cow was one of the performers.
 Bob R.’s interest in performances developed differently from Whitman and the others. It came out of dance. The first one, Pelican, was billed as a dance and first done as part of a Judson Theater concert out of town, in Washington, D.C. He did some other works as part of the Judson concerts later in 1963 and then during his travels with Merce Cunningham. But as he worked more with performance, his later ones increasingly were progressions of overlapping, changing, distinct images or actions, like Spring Training for the First New York Theater Rally in spring 1965, or Map Room II for the benefit evening at the Cinematheque in December of the same year.
 For Rauschenberg, it was very much the milieu and him being part of it, working with people he knew—primarily Steve, Alex, and Deborah. He did some of those early pieces several times, especially Pelican. But in the 1990s when interest revived in performances of the sixties and people asked to redo works, for example his 9 Evenings piece, Open Score, he said he didn’t want to do the pieces again. They were of the time. I think it’s too bad but he said, “They’re of the time.” It’s sort of like a painting. You can’t make a painting again thirty years later.