Martin: In this instance he asked for nature films and in particular he wanted penguins. Some things he shot himself. He shot film of people having tea underwater. It was in the pool at the Sculls’ [Robert C. and Ethel Scull] house on Long Island. He projected that film on the floor in 9 Evenings. He also shot footage for Two Holes of Water in which he used a mirror set up so he had the images of the front and back of a girl superimposed on each other. For Untitled, he himself had found a film of a spleen operation, part of which he projected with the accompanying soundtrack. It was extraordinary. Since I heard it so many times, those words in the narration still resound: “downward through the pericardial membrane.” But Bob did ask for film of penguins, like he had some idea there. He didn’t say which penguin film. If I hadn’t found penguins, he would have used something else, I’m sure. He had people he liked to work with who he asked to be in his pieces—Simone, Trisha, Susanne de Maria, Mimi Stark. But often it was people who were around. My roommate Jackie Leavitt was the typist in the 9 Evenings piece. He didn’t necessarily pick people with special qualities.
 Billy says that Claes did—that Claes would sometimes pick people who filled some kind of role he had in mind. Billy and his then girlfriend, Letty Eisenhauer, were in one of the first pieces at the Ray Gun Theater and had specific interactions that reflected their relationship in real life. Claes had his group of players who were in a lot of his Ray Gun Theater pieces: his wife Patty, Lucas Samaras, and Gloria Graves. But more than Whitman or Dine he would somehow suit the role to the person. Whitman had people who would work with him. He feels the work developed through the performances. He would say, “Do it a very direct way, no theatrical flourishes.” A lot of the activity was task-based. “Go over and turn on the light, do this.” But of course he worked with Simone who was a consummate performer. In Prune Flat, she was joined by Lucinda.