Martin: Right, Bob and Alex worked with tires in Pelican. Steve and Alex were in Map Room II. This was the piece where Bob stepped into—or, better, onto—shoes made by Arman [born Armand Fernandez], which were shoes embedded in clear acrylic blocks glued together to make kind of high platform shoes. Then he reached down and picked up these two neon tubes that started glowing as he held them in his hands, activated by what the catalogue says were “contact sensors.” He walked across the stage holding these glowing neon tubes. I think it was an extraordinarily beautiful piece. I remember him saying that he had to grab the neon tubes firmly or he could get an electric shock.
 I do remember something that happened at the party after the performances at the Forty-first Street Theater in December that year. I suppose as part of the benefit there was a party for the artists, performers, and audience. It was in a room next to the theater. I remember Claes and [Patricia] Patty [Mucha, née Muschinski] doing a series of improvised tableaux on the stage, opening and closing the curtain, each time revealing a different pose. Then at one point Bob R. had Simone in a cloth bag and he was carrying her on his shoulder walking around the party and she was singing inside the sack. And it was this exact thing that he added to the second performance of his 9 Evenings piece, Open Score [1966]. He had her in a cloth sack and picked her up and carried her to different parts of the [69th Regiment] Armory floor and put her down for a time before picking her up and moving her to another part of the space and all the time she was singing a Tuscan love song. It was gorgeous.
 Whitman did Prune Flat there [Forty-first Street Theater]. It is one of his classic pieces. It was a film piece, where a film of images fills the back wall of the stage and two performers [Simone Forti and Lucinda Childs] come on stage moving and slowly sometimes interacting with the images on the wall. Then the third performer [Mimi Stark] comes out and stands and a second film is projected on her of her and her clothes as they change colors or style instantaneously. She follows the actions in the film as she walks across the stage, smokes a cigarette, undresses, and the film continues to be projected on her. It’s about what film can do. You couldn’t do that if you couldn’t do film. Then he has things happening in the film and then they happen on stage. For instance, there is the film of an empty street on Wall Street and the two performers walk around the corner and across the street. Then a bit later the same two performers wearing the same coats walk across the stage. At the end of the piece, action on stage follows a film of it—a bright light bulb goes on high above the two performers’ heads, is pulled down by Lucinda, and Simone throws water from a glass at it and it breaks. Simone was amazing—if the water didn’t break the bulb she would just reach out and hit it with the glass to break it. It’s an extraordinary piece.