Martin: No, I never thought of it that way. In some weird ways you follow what your parents did and my mother went to New York after she graduated from Vanderbilt [University, Nashville] and so in some way I had the idea that I would live in New York. I never planned to leave New York, but mainly it was very cheap to live there. After the one- to one-and-a-half years of courses, Columbia was very cheap. I had an apartment at 130 Morningside Drive, $130 per month with four bedrooms and three roommates. So there was no question of leaving New York. I had a boyfriend named Robert Fagan. He’d gone to Princeton [University, New Jersey] and got kicked out for not going to chapel. [Laughter] Can you believe? In those days that could happen. He was living in New York and was sort of an independent art historian. I mean, he studied on his own. He’s a poet and art historian. He was an incredibly exciting, intellectual person. He was the boyfriend of one of my housemates at Radcliffe and we had all met him on some visits. But at Thanksgiving of our senior year in college he had contracted one of the last really bad cases of polio. She stayed with him during his first months in the hospital when he was completely paralyzed. But he survived and began to improve. When I met him again in New York in the fall of 1960 he was in a wheelchair, but that didn’t stop him from going to every art gallery and museum, theater performance, or concert that he wanted to see. So I really got my art education from him. I really learned a lot about art from him. In particular the sense that there’s no difference between old art and new art. That it’s a continuum and that you don’t react against new art because it’s new. You accept it and you see the same qualities in it that you see in the older art.
 But I really didn’t know anything much about contemporary art. I remember going to [Leo] Castelli Gallery [New York] with Robert. There was one of—I always tell this story—one of Roy Lichtenstein’s recent paintings. It was one of his versions of cubist Picasso. And I said, “Oh, when was that Picasso painted?” And Leo said, “That Lichtenstein was painted last week.” Okay. You realize you had something to learn. But I looked at a lot of art then with Robert.
 I also met Robert [“Bob”] Whitman through Robert Fagan. Actually, as early as 1960. Robert had grown up in Englewood, New Jersey. He hadn’t known Whitman. But one of his brothers, Peter Fagan, had been a friend of Bob Whitman and another guy there named Hugh Mitchell. Hugh was studying writing at NYU [New York University] and was part of the crew helping Whitman put on the theater piece, American Moon [1960]. Hugh Mitchell invited Robert and me to the performance and we went. That was the first theater piece or performance I’d ever seen. I had no idea what was going on, but I vividly remember some of the images and the experience of sitting in one of the tunnels facing the main space and seeing Bob and Simone [Forti] rolling over each other and then hopping, lying down around the space, the sounds from above, the clear plastic shape that filled the center space.