Martin: It took place in a swamp on Two Holes of Water Road [Easthampton, New York], which gave Bob the title. And at the bottom of a hill off this road were two holes of water. One of the first things, as the audience members walked from the road down the hill, he had paper bags each with sand and a candle in it, lining the pathway. People walked down and then at the “entrance” of the area, where the performance would take place, they walked between two screens. Steve Paxton and I were over to the left of the screens in a swampy muddy piece of land and I had a video camera and he had a light. He was lighting his feet and he was walking in this swampy terrain and the video image of his feet was projected on the screens and I was videotaping it and the people saw that image. The audience sat facing the body of water and Bob had film images and things going on in the woods beyond the pond, people in a boat on the pond. Bob had other film images and things going on with the water, with the water for this and more activity that had to do with the outdoors and the sound that went with the outdoors. The engineers who were working on 9 Evenings helped him with some of the technical aspects of the video, sound, and film projection—how to get power into this fairly remote swampy area.
 I was still working with him when he did the piece again and called it Two Holes of Water-2 [1966] at the New York Film Festival in September. He adapted the original piece to the new space he was working in, as he did when he did it in 9 Evenings. The second performance was held in the basement of the Lincoln Center library [New York Public Library for the Performing Arts] where there’s a little bitty theater. Maybe it’s not there anymore but it was a tiny theater. I think it was mainly for films and the space on stage was almost non-existent. Bob used elements and images from the performance on Long Island. As I remember, it began with images of people coming into the theater projected on the walls of the theater. The other images appeared and I remember that it was an amazing experience, the timing and the images. Everything was working together. But that evening there was one of those torrential rainstorms in New York.
 The water was flooding into this theater, which was below ground and water was rising. When it got near the electricity, Bob had to stop the piece. I remember being completely disappointed that the piece, which was so moving, had to be stopped. We were flooded out. Then he did the same piece for 9 Evenings, calling it Two Holes of Water-3 [1966].