Martin: I think Bob [Rauschenberg] understood the danger of artists and engineers being so separate from each other—as he said, groups unrealistically developing in isolation from each other—and he was never an artist who stuck only to paint and canvas. He was always reaching out into the world around him and, in his collaborations with Billy, he could see the possibilities the technical world offered but also how far away it was from the art world.
 These things are never really spelled out but I think the technical community and technology was more monolithic in those days. The individual didn’t have access to the system. The wording that he and Bob used was about making technology more accessible to the individual and for the individual’s enjoyment—individual enrichment and pleasure.
 Here are the aims they collaborated in writing for the 1967 press conference: “Maintain a constructive climate for the recognition of the new technology and the arts by a civilized collaboration between groups unrealistically developing in isolation. Eliminate the separation of the individual from technological change and expand and enrich technology to give the individual variety, pleasure, and avenues for exploration and involvement in contemporary life. Encourage industrial initiative in generating original forethought, instead of a compromise in aftermath, and precipitate a mutual agreement in order to avoid the waste of a cultural revolution.” [Note: Published in E.A.T. News (New York) 1, no. 3 (Nov. 1, 1967), p. 5.]
 Those three incomprehensible goals of E.A.T. that they wrote. I’m being facetious. They were not incomprehensible but they certainly had Bob’s wonderful, complex language. Billy later said that Bob essentially wrote the first and third of the aims and he wrote the second one. I recently noticed that they don’t say anything about making art. The aims really were about both bringing different communities—the art community, the technical community, and the industrial community—in the society to work together. And also about empowering the individual. That the development of technology could empower the individual and improve each individual’s life. That was the idea that they agreed on. Billy saw the artist as the supreme individual in the sense of not just making art—that wasn’t interesting—but being the person who took responsibility for his or her own work. With the artist, there was never any kind of apologies like, “Oh, if I had more time, the art would have been better.”