Martin: Billy articulating it to me. Billy’s idea about saving engineering was one he had had for a long time. He articulated it in some early things he wrote. He had wanted the individual engineer to be more aware of what he/she was doing and to see they could affect the systems they were working on. And then he saw the artist as this vehicle for stimulating change. I think that Bob understood it too and it was important. But I think his interest came from the art side and increasing the possibilities for art and art changing the world. That art would change the world. I think commitment to the engineer as an equal was in it.
 One of the things he’d wanted to do early on—as a young person, he was a film nut. He saw films in Stockholm. I think he went regularly to every film that came to Stockholm in the forties—what could come into Sweden during the war and after. He kept a notebook where he entered every film he saw: the title, the director, his rating, and his comments. He was president of the university Student Film Society and was getting from the American Embassy, during the war, Hollywood and avant-garde American films—you know, Maya Deren and the Whitney brothers [James Whitney and John Whitney, Sr.]—to Sweden to show. When he came here, he continued that interest in film. He said he immigrated to the United States because he wanted to see what it looked like, having seen it in the movies. He always had this insatiable curiosity about what things looked like.
 When he was at the Kungliga Tekniska högskolan [Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm] and studying electrical engineering, for his senior thesis he made a film—an animated film— Motion of Electrons in Electric and Magnetic Fields [1951]. He and his friend, Nils Hugo Geber, who became a film historian and theorist, used Disney-type cells to show the little electrons moving along a vacuum tube and then being deflected in various patterns by the electrical and then magnetic fields. His professor was Hannes Alfvén, who had won the Nobel Prize for physics. He accepted Billy’s film. Many years later, Billy was very proud because Alfvén wrote a science fiction book, The Tale of the Big Computer [1968], in English. He wrote it under a pseudonym. Then when it came out in Sweden, he sent Billy a copy of the book with the dedication, “Thank you for your film.” So it was unique.