Martin: Or to understand that the way the artist works could prompt the engineer to question or expand his own system. Ask different questions of it. See different possibilities in it. I don’t think Billy ever thought that the artist and the engineer working together was going to make any kind of scientific discovery. He always said, “You’re kind of working on a lower level.” You may be at the forefront of engineering technology and ingenuity but you’re not at the forefront of knowledge. But the possibility of asking different questions of what you’re doing was the idea of the value of the collaboration the engineer could have with an artist. The engineer could make decisions or devise things and use his skills in ways he hadn’t considered before. Fred Waldhauer is one of the engineers who most—besides Billy—most got it.
 He saw some of the same confining limitations of the developing technology that Billy saw and always said, you can’t get out of the technological world but you can make it better. It was Fred who coined what I’ve always thought was one of the best descriptions of the artist’s role in this: “In designing and building the future, we are all amateurs, but the artist may be the best amateur.” To go back, Fred had been a great fan of jazz during his days at Cornell [University, Ithaca, New York], traveling to New York City to go to the clubs. He in his own work at Bell Labs worked on the advanced T1 digital switching system. In the seventies he took time off and wrote a very technical study of feedback, which was of course one of the electronic phenomena that engaged David [E.] Tudor in his performance and composition. He was very close to David—built the Proportional Control System for him for 9 Evenings—and worked with him in developing the sound system for the Pepsi Pavilion [Expo ’70, Osaka, Japan, 1970]. And in the 1980s he developed the first digital hearing aid. His mother was going deaf so he had some idea of the problems. He tells that one day he was driving in his very rattley Toyota and listening to music on the radio and he realized that just making things louder didn’t help. You still couldn’t hear the music. With his knowledge of digital technology at Bell Labs, he devised the first programmable hearing aid that would raise only the frequencies that the person was deficient in. He individualized the hearing aid.