Martin: I went to Canada sometime after 9 Evenings. As I’ve said, I was mostly working with Bob Whitman during the months before the 9 Evenings and wouldn’t have known about the planning, fundraising, et cetera. I remember I worked with Simone on turning her diary and notes kept during the preparations for the 9 Evenings into an article for Artforum, “Theatre and Engineering: An Experiment, [1.] Notes by a Participant.” It accompanied an article by Billy, “[Theater and Engineering: An Experiment, 2.] Notes by an Engineer.” They were both published in the February 1967 issue so we must have worked on the article in November or early December at the latest. It must have been after that that I went to Canada and came back in the spring of ’67. I worked for CBS in the spring and then worked for Christophe de Menil on the second summer of her Midsummer performance series. It was during this summer that Billy and Olga came out to the performances and I remember a meeting on the beach to talk about E.A.T. I don’t know whether Bob R. was there or not.
 Then that fall, I worked for Channel Thirteen on a show about the Russian Revolution. I remember I came in fresh from working on Long Island. Those were the years of short skirts. I think there were remarks at Channel Thirteen, “Who is this woman that’s wearing these short, short skirts?” [Laughter] I didn’t quite fit in but I was helping with research on their program on the fiftieth anniversary of the Russian Revolution. Then the same fall I got involved with E.A.T. That’s a good chronology—a personal chronology. Then in October, I was asked to be one of the hostesses for the E.A.T. press conference at Bob Rauschenberg’s house. That summer Billy and Bob had been introduced to Theodore [W. “Ted”] Kheel by the collector John Powers and Ted began to work with E.A.T. He brought cooperation with organized labor into the mix and suggested a large formal press conference to announce E.A.T.’s collaborations with the technical, industrial, and labor communities. I was around enough to be part of the press conference. Bob silkscreened images of clouds in blue on these paper dresses that the women wore for the festivities. There was an exhibition of works incorporating technology on several floors—Oracle, some neon works, and the press conference in the chapel, with representatives from businesses, Herman [D.] Kenin from the [American Federation of] Musicians union, Senator Jacob [K.] Javits, John Pierce from Bell Labs, et cetera, gave talks.
 I did take part in the press conference and I may have already been working for E.A.T. by that time. And then a few weeks later I was in one of Bob R.’s performances at the School of Visual Arts [New York] called Urban Round [1967]. I think Les Levine did a piece there too and Simone Forti did Slant Board [1961]. For Bob’s piece I remember that there were these wooden boards and you partnered with two other people and sometimes you stood with the board and sometimes you were carried on the board. I think you first stood in the audience area and read something from the paper backwards and when you were finished, you came down to the area with the boards. Maybe when you were not reading you got carried—I can’t remember the instructions. I have seen a photo of the performance with a lot of people and boards in a small space and I recognize myself, with, as I say, longer hair and shorter skirts than today.