Martin: The feasibility study for the outdoor screen for Centre Pompidou was much later— 1975–76. And, like several of the E.A.T. projects over the years, it developed out of a dialogue between Billy and Pontus. Pontus, in about 1973, had gone to Paris to develop the Musée National d’Art Moderne for the Centre Georges Pompidou. One of the ideas of the architects— Renzo Piano and Richard Rogers, who won the competition for the building—was to have a video screen on the outside of the building with varied programming on it. Pontus asked Billy to develop a proposal and feasibility study for such a screen and programming for it: games people could play from kiosks on the plaza, views of what was going on in the museum, films by or about artists, et cetera. So Billy, operating within E.A.T., enlisted the necessary technical people and industries to make a feasibility study for developing and installing such a screen. He worked with main sub-contractor, Ford Aeronautics, to develop the proposal. But because the French bureaucracy wanted a fixed price for the system—not the usual cost-plus formula American companies were used to—the cost submitted was very high and the system was never built, and we never got to the point of developing programming for it. But E.A.T. was never “looking for work” in the sense you ask. We applied for grants and wrote a lot of proposals for funding.
 Let me back up. E.A.T.’s most active years were 1966 to 1973 or ’74. During this period there developed two tracks of E.A.T. activities. The first was what we called the Artists Matching Program, where artists could write or come to E.A.T. with technical questions, problems, or requests for help in developing an idea that needed one aspect of new technology or another— electrical, mechanical, or chemical engineering and beyond—and E.A.T. would match the artist with an engineer in the appropriate field, who could help with the project. It started with Billy and Fred Waldhauer handling the matches, then Ralph Flynn and then, for several years, Peter Poole was in charge of matchings. It was for this program that we made the effort to sign up engineers from all over the country and from many different fields. This program continued throughout the major years of E.A.T. activities. It was for this matching system that we developed lists of engineers who could help artists and explored different method of information retrieval. We had artist members, but we never wanted to have a database of artists.
 The first information retrieval system we developed was for matchings—to be able to access engineers. As we had more and more engineers sign up, we needed to be able to find them. This system used McBee Keysort cards. I don’t know if you know the cards with the knitting needles? Knitting needles. That was how Peter was working. Names, addresses, and specialties of the engineers were on cards. Then the holes around the edge of the card were assigned different information: city, specialties, et cetera. We only made these cards for engineers. Then when the artist had a question, you stuck the needles through the corresponding holes and the engineer with the selected specialty and right location would fall out. Peter would then give the artist the names and addresses of the engineers. He would write the artist’s name on the back of the card. But that was the extent of our follow-up. Because we didn’t follow up these matches. We just sort of sent people out into the world together.