Martin: Well, open houses were one way. Billy gave talks at universities and colleges. We visited industrial laboratories like IBM and several places like that. We generated write-ups in technical magazines. We began a lecture series on various aspects of technology for artists and invited engineers and scientists from many different places to lecture. I think Billy loosely had in mind that E.A.T. could function like a professional engineering society, like the IEEE [Institute for Electric and Electronic Engineers] with a membership and chapters. He did try to have the IEEE organize a technical specialty subgroup, Engineering in Art, but they never did it. One thing I have to add is that there was an immediate response to the idea of E.A.T. as an organization to help artist and engineers to work together from all over the United States and all over the world. It seemed to be an idea whose time had come. Billy and Bob got requests from friends in other places asking if they could open E.A.T. groups in their cities. They said yes immediately and, within two years, about twenty E.A.T. local groups were active, run by local artists and engineers and pretty much independent of us.
 To go back to the pursuit of engineers, in the spring 1968 came a new opportunity to attract engineers. Pontus Hultén had been invited to make an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, The Machine as Seen at the End of the Mechanical Age [1968–69], that began with Leonardo [da Vinci] and went into the present. Pontus asked Billy and E.A.T. to find new works— contemporary works—that incorporated technology. Billy saw this as an opportunity to attract engineers. E.A.T. sponsored a competition in which the prize would go to the engineer for “the best contribution by an engineer to a work of art made in collaboration with an artist.” The competition was announced in the New York Times [November 12, 1967] and several of the technical journals. Part of the announcement was that Pontus would choose works for his Machine show from the works submitted. Also E.A.T. offered to match up artists and engineers to work on projects if they wanted to.