Martin: Yes, Projects Outside Art. Well, the pavilion became one of them, when you look back on it. I don’t know if they were thinking that but we began to develop the idea that the artist, as a professional with certain skills—not art skills, but certain skills, human skills—could be part of an interdisciplinary team that could work in other areas of society on other problems. This also partly came about because of Vikram Sarabhai, who was head of the Atomic Energy Commission in India. The Sarabhais—they’re a very wealthy Indian family based in Ahmedabad, [who acquired their wealth through] mainly textiles and then pharmaceuticals.
 There were many brothers. Vikram was a scientist—quite a well-known scientist—active with Pugwash [Conferences on Science and World Affairs], anti-nuclear weapons and pro-peaceful uses of atomic energy. He was head of the Atomic Energy Commission in India and initiated their space program. NASA had offered India the opportunity to get an ATS-F [Applications Technology Satellite] communications satellite over India so that you could broadcast directly to the villages. In other words, you didn’t have to build this infrastructure going out from Delhi slowly, telephone poles or wires, whatever. He saw this as a great opportunity.
 He asked E.A.T. to help develop instructional software or develop methods for developing software. This was in the winter of ’69. We put together a group of people of whom an artist was part—Whitman was the artist—to go to India and work on this issue. Fred Waldhauer and [Ernst] Ernie Rothkopf, who was an education specialist at Bell Labs. Somebody from Xerox teaching. Fred Waldhauer and Peter Poole, who was an E.A.T. staff member. And I went. This group was going to work with their Indian counterparts. They actually did come up with an idea using 1/2-inch video to make visual research notes as a basis for developing educational programs to be broadcast by satellite.
 Our target area for a test project was the Amul Dairy Cooperative in Anand in Gujarat state, where Ahmedabad is, the center of which was a big, modern dairy that supplies milk and milk products to Bombay. There were like fifteen hundred women every day, who would bring small quantities of milk from their buffalo twice a day to collection stations in or near their villages. They would weigh it and test the fat content, pay the women for the milk, and then it would go to the dairy. They had this incredible distribution system. The idea would be to use 1/2-inch video in the villages, make tapes that the people there even could be involved in making. Then you could circulate them using the milk collection system and do your testing ahead of time so you knew what kind of images, what kind of teaching worked. Then you’d go and make the tapes for broadcast, rather than have somebody from the BBC sit and lecture the farmers.