Martin: We were working on it with Honeywell Bull and even made a prototype. We applied to the Ford Foundation for funding for the Artists Matching Program [Matching Artist and Engineer Service, 1966]—a very elaborate proposal with provisions for following up and collecting information on the collaborations—but we were turned down. Even after the mid-seventies when funding became scarce and E.A.T. downsized, so to speak, Billy would answer any artist who called and find technical help for him/her.
 In addition to that ongoing matching program we found ourselves initiating and administering larger scale projects. The first was the E.A.T. competition and the Some More Beginnings show at the Brooklyn Museum in 1968. The next was the Pepsi Pavilion. These large projects came along almost by chance, literally. The Pepsi Pavilion came about when Robert Breer’s neighbor in Snedens Landing [New York], David Thomas, who worked for PepsiCo International, said, “Pepsi has the opportunity to do this pavilion for Expo ’70 in Osaka, Japan, one of three American companies allowed to have pavilions. It can’t be commercial. The theme is toward the future. Art and technology. Are you interested?” Breer, of course, wanted to have his Floats up there at the pavilion. He came to Billy and said, “Are you interested?” Billy saw this is as a great opportunity for artists’ and engineers’ collaborations. It wasn’t looking for work. It came. It was an opportunity. Let’s do it. It just so happened that that money was very useful at the time.
 Then, from ’69 to ’70, although we were engulfed, in a way, by the pavilion, a lot of other things happened. 1969 was the same year that we developed this idea of Projects Outside Art, which I say is the less sexy part of E.A.T. but is a direction that interests people now. The next generation has gotten to it. It was that forward-looking. I think that was very much Billy and Bob Whitman working together because Bob Whitman was part of the Pepsi Pavilion project and became more active in E.A.T. on a day-to-day basis.
 Rauschenberg hadn’t really wanted to be part of the pavilion. He gave some suggestions in the beginning and sat in on some meetings but his interest was not in being part of making a pavilion for Expo ’70.