Martin: One got used to it, as I said, in the beginning. Then you began to understand. The words I always think of are commitment and responsibility. You worked with somebody. You were committed to working with them. You were doing it because you wanted to work with them. You wanted to work on the project. For them, this idea of taking responsibility for what they’re doing. You had this feeling that you had your own responsibility for whatever it was—whatever role that you were playing or what you were doing. You took it very seriously. You know, personally seriously. I think that’s something that was very—I mean, I don’t know if those words—they’re not words you hear so much now. I think it was very much in the air then and, very much, that’s what, for Bob, collaboration was about: two (or more) people committed to finding a solution and to working on a project. Not dictating exactly what has to be done from start to finish or having the final idea from start to finish.
 The story of Oracle, of course, is kind of key to that. It started out— You know, Bob did a painting called Broadcast in ’59, which had a radio and it had these kind of strings in back and you turned it. It did the same thing. It changed the volume and it changed the rate of speed. When Billy started talking to him about doing things, Bob said, “I’d like to do five paintings and I want each of them to have a radio inback of it. I want a control console out front to control the radios but I don’t want any wires.” So then, with the existing technology, it was technically impossible. He wanted AM radio because that’s where the—what do you call it—action was in those days. FM was a few stations with classical music or something. Then, how are you going to transmit wirelessly? Well, it just was impossible. The interference between the five transmissions was enormous. And the first system was a disaster. So Billy and his TA, Harold Hodges, kept working for a number of years. At one point Bob got tired of that so the painting just went out as a painting, as a five-part painting, Ace [1962]. He decided to do the work as a sculpture; somewhere along the line, it changed to a sculpture. Then it began to take shape that way and took its final form.
 Bob very much knew what he wanted. He knew the elements of the work that were important to him. This comes about a little bit more in the restoration. Oracle’s been restored and new technical components have been added several times over the years. At one point, Per Biorn, who worked on all of this, said, “You know, I can have the scanning go digitally from station to station.” Billy asked Bob. Bob said no. He didn’t want that. He wanted the old-fashioned noise— the static in between stations. That was an aesthetic decision that got posed. The same thing happened when they were redoing Soundings [1968]. The first time Billy and Fred Waldhauer went to Cologne to see about restoring Soundings for its permanent installation at the Ludwig Museum there. They were redoing the sound system and the trigger mechanism that responds to different voices differently. Billy said, “You know, those mirrors have gotten really yellow. Do you want new mirrors put on the piece?” Bob said no. Bob liked the change over time. He didn’t want to change the mirrors. He was very clear about what the aesthetics were. But in terms of the technology, neither of them had any commitment or love of keeping the old technology. It was the final image that was important to Bob and that was what Billy respected.
 I think artists of that generation who came to the technology after they were already working artists—they used new technology as a way to fulfill or expand an image they already had. It wasn’t really about the technology. Now, so much of the work itself is conditioned by the technology the artist already knows or has easily at hand. Do you know what I mean? The art comes out of the technology. I think people like Whitman and Rauschenberg and some of the people that worked with new technology in the beginning, they already knew what they wanted to do with their art. They already had their image, so to speak. And I say that broadly.
 One of things that Billy was very clear about, or tried to be clear about was, “What was an artist’s decision? What was an engineering decision?” So at certain points—like asking Bob—he understood that there’s a difference between digital and analog scanning of the stations. So he knew that that was a decision he wanted Bob to make.