Martin: Well, we never did it. I’ve more recently realized why we weren’t involved. Vikram died, quite young, in 1971. Actually in ’74–75 the ATS-F satellite was sent over India and the group initiated what they called SITE [Satellite Instructional Television Experiment] project, led by Dr. [E. V.] Chitnis, who had been part of the group working with us, using satellite transmission for direct broadcast of educational programming, which used some of these ideas we proposed. We didn’t do it, but it did take fruit. There’s a young man named Alexander Keefe, who writes about art and art in Asia. He’s researching the SITE project, interviewing people, and working on this issue.
 This idea of Projects Outside Art was kind of born with the Anand project—that this would be a really interesting way to go for the kinds of projects that E.A.T. would initiate, would push things further. Of course, looking back, the pavilion’s one of them. You’re not making art. You’re making a pavilion for a world’s fair. It is a kind of Project Outside Art. The concept developed. We got some sort of grant to do a series of exhibitions and so we asked for suggestions for Project Outside Art. One we did was [A Vegetable Roof Gardening Project] City Agriculture [1970] or rooftop gardening with the University of Arizona to do hydroponic gardening on city rooftops. Another was Children and Communication [1970] in which we had these two areas connected by telephone lines and different terminals—telex, telephone, facsimile machines, Electrowriter—in which the kids could use the equipment freely to communicate with each other. It was a test project to have kids communicate with other areas of the city without having to go out of their own neighborhoods. Interestingly enough, we did this the first year of the internet, 1971. But of course, we had no idea. At that point, Billy wasn’t part of the technical community that was following this stuff so it came out of ideas he and Whitman and E.A.T. staff developed. E.A.T. L.A. [Los Angeles] developed some ideas around Recreation and Play [1970].