Martin: Right. Right. The commitment is to a process of discovery, not a process of perfection. One of the appeals that new technology had for Bob was it offered him the ability to explore an idea he had expressed early on. He had said that if you could remember a painting, it’s dead for you. So for him a challenge was how to keep a painting alive. And in using the new technology offered by Billy and his colleagues he could make works in which there’s no way that you ever see the same image more than once. The image is always changing. In Oracle, the sound is of five radios in which the scanning from station to station never stops, which creates an ever-changing sound space. In Soundings, sounds in the room trigger images of chairs tumbling in space and each sound triggers a different pattern of light. In Solstice, the person walking through it is opening and closing doors in front of and behind himself, creating moving images. And in Mud Muse, the bubbling mud is never still. Although there’s always a mechanism that activates the work, he’s used the mechanism to bring about infinite variety in all those pieces. In the Revolvers, it’s the same. Not only do the round disks move in circles, they move independently of each other and the round disks are never in the same relation to each other. The image the piece presents, even at rest, is never the same.
 That’s what I meant about the artist in this generation having an image or having an idea that he or she wanted to pursue. Then the technology made it possible. The promise of the technology was to fulfill an idea. Not necessarily what it was going to look like because those four pieces couldn’t be more different, right? They have this one thing in common that they’re always changing—either by themselves or by people interacting with them. That was the other thing. He didn’t say, “It has to be interactive.” He had two pieces or three, including the Revolvers, that were interactive. The viewer participates in creating the image they experience. But they didn’t have to be. In fact when Bob started to work on what became Mud Muse, he expressly decided not to make it interactive or responsive to the environment. It bubbles to its own sounds.