Martin: It’s important to note that from the very beginning—you see it in the newsletter—all four of the founders saw E.A.T. as a catalyst to bring about change and that, when successful, the role of E.A.T. as a mediator would disappear and many of its functions be taken over by industry, universities, or professional engineering societies. Now, almost fifty years later, you see some of this taking place. Colleges and art schools teach classes in art and technology.
 Collaborations start spontaneously. Industries, especially in the high-tech area, set up or sponsor collaborations between artists and technical people. Although now, very often, it is with the idea that the artist can come up with the next big thing. One recent project was to put artists and technical people—computer programmers as well as engineers—together for twenty-four hours and expect them to come up with a project. It’s a far cry from what we were doing, but certainly the idea of the value of collaboration is well-established in the society.
 Bob moved away from E.A.T. as the sole vehicle for his idealism and social engagement, but never away from his overall commitment to changing the world through his work and his activities. I think so. Not in any kind of intellectual—it wasn’t like, “I don’t think this is going to work,” or, “I don’t believe this anymore.” It was more the way Bob works in series. In a sense, in his work, he did these incredible pieces. The four pieces incorporating technology are among his—I hate to use the word masterpiece, but I find myself using it these days. But Oracle, Solstice, Soundings, and Mud Muse are just incredible pieces. Then he did Revolvers and he did the Carnal Clocks [1969]. Then he moved on in his work. And what did he do? He began to work with the humblest material he could find cardboard. Let’s make pieces with cardboard.
 To me, Bob was always challenging himself. His talent was so great, he could make anything beautiful. He could take anything, put it together and it’s beautiful. It’s an incredible work, right? My feeling is that he constantly challenged himself to broaden himself. To go from this very technical involvement and then all of a sudden to, “Let’s work with cardboard. Let’s make pieces.” He’s not falling back on his preconceived ideas or his talents. He’s trying to work with something that makes him grow. I think throughout his life he did that.