Martin: Early on Billy worked with a number of artists, like Johns and Warhol and Cage and Tudor, and continued to help artists with projects all his life. But he had close and sustained relationships that went beyond working on art projects with two artists, Bob Rauschenberg and Bob Whitman. Both of these relationships developed in the context of E.A.T. and then continued throughout their lives. The basis for these relationships was a moral sense—a commitment to the role of art and artist to contribute to the common good in society. My favorite words: commitment, responsibility, the individual.
 To answer the second part of your question, I think one of the reasons that Billy and Bob R. got along so well on a practical level were some of these characteristics I was talking about. I mean, when you start a project, you’re committed to it. You’re committed to doing something and you don’t want these irrelevancies—“Oh, the budget. We don’t have a budget. We don’t have this”— to get in the way. Of course there are always limitations but you don’t let that stop you at the beginning. I think the sense of commitment, the sense of wanting to make the world better, belief that what you do can make a difference; that was very strong in E.A.T. and in Billy and very strong in Bob. Billy approached it from the engineering side—wanting the collaboration to affect engineering in some way, at least one person at a time. Billy was an engineer and followed that logic.
 Bob was an artist and he stayed an artist and through his art he affected the world around him. I think at his core was this strong moral sense and spirituality that runs through all his life and work, from his early paintings like Mother of God [ca. 1950] and the White Paintings that were intensely spiritual and transcendent. In his paintings and in his sculpture, he could go from the individual, the personal, to the cosmic in the course of one painting, and he never lost the sense of the person. He was always working in the now, alert to and responding to and shaping the world around him. He had an enormous appetite for life and for all the images and ideas life brings, always pushing himself to expand the possibilities for himself and the people around him. It was these ideas of morality, commitment, personal responsibility, and always pushing forward that united them. And, I have to say, united them and Bob Whitman and Fred Waldhauer—the strong moral sense of wanting to change the world, make it better for each person.
 Later when E.A.T. got involved in the Pepsi Pavilion project, Bob Whitman became more active on a day-to-day basis. We met Vikram Sarabhai, who was head of the Indian Atomic Energy Commission and part of the Sarabhai family that had sponsored Merce Cunningham to come to India in 1964. Billy accompanied him to the World Bank in Washington to make proposals on developing communications networks and out of that grew an invitation to E.A.T. to put together a team to come to India to develop methods of creating education programming for education in India. Billy and Whitman began to develop the idea of projects in which E.A.T. put together interdisciplinary teams to work on projects in areas of society outside art, which we called Projects Outside Art. It started as a request for proposals for projects for an exhibition but grew organically into a series of projects: Children and Communication for developing telecommunications centers between schools, City Agriculture for rooftop gardening, developing modules on areas of vocational education, et cetera. Bob R. wasn’t involved in these activities but both he and E.A.T. were following the same trajectory of wanting to affect change in the society, Bob with his art, with Change, Inc., with the ROCI project and on and on.
 Also over the years I think Bob also saw Billy as this kind of technical resource. Whenever there was something he wanted to do that was a little weird, he would call Billy. He always called on Billy to oversee the updating and restorations of the works that incorporated technology, especially Dry Cell, Oracle, and Soundings. Certainly the people Bob worked with were smart, resourceful, and loved the researching he needed when he wanted to try new things. He assembled a team of people in Captiva [Florida], who were extraordinary, to make his art with him and to work on his art. But there were projects that he called Billy for, like the portable set for Trisha Brown. Bob had been working with Trisha on sets and costumes for many years. In 1989 she was going to perform outdoors in Montpellier [France]. And he had this idea to do a set that provided both lights and sound and could be used outdoors or used anywhere—a set that didn’t have to be plugged into a theater system. So he talked to Billy and Billy brought in Per Biorn and they built these aluminum towers on wheels for Astral Convertible. It had ninety-six rectangular car headlights mounted on open aluminum towers, which used electric eye technology to be triggered off and on as the dancers moved and broke the light beam. And the sound was provided by battery-operated players so these towers could move around on stage.
 This was a later collaboration that came to fruition. There were several ideas that Bob had that were beyond the technology. I remember he called Billy. He said, “I’m doing this chapel with Renzo Piano in Italy. I would like something that changes as the light changes.” That maybe it was transparent and then the sunlight would hit it and it would change color or color would appear. “I wonder, can you paint with liquid crystal?” So Billy got to work. He actually got to the head engineer at Samsung, who was doing a lot of this development at the time. And he said, “No, you can’t paint with that material because liquid crystal materials doesn’t emit light, but modulate it, and you need to have the liquid crystal material imbedded between a number of glass layers. And for color, each pixel has to be addressed electronically by its own transistor and you needed backlighting or a reflector layer to see the colors.” That was the state of the art at that time. [Note: Rauschenberg’s The Happy Apocalypse, 1999, was created for Padre Pio Pilgrimage Church, San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy, but was rejected by the Vatican.] Later I saw in a ladies’ room that there were these stall doors that were clear but when you closed them you connected some electricity and the doors became opaque. And I remember thinking that that might have worked but by that time Bob was on to something else.
 For one of the latest projects, when Bob was planning his retrospective in ’97 at the [Solomon R.] Guggenheim [Museum] in New York, he called Billy. He said he’d like to make a sound piece with sound underwater and then with speakers going up the ramp. Oh, no; it started as something else. Something about a cube of sound large enough for people to be inside the structure. It was where people would talk inside the cube and you could hear it outside the cube; I can’t really remember. But the idea of sound coming from the Guggenheim pool was considered and Billy did investigate underwater speakers for the Guggenheim. [Note: This sound piece was not realized.]
 [INTERRUPTION]
 I was talking about later collaborations that they did. One was for the [Jacob K.] Javits [Convention] Center [New York]. When the Center, which opened in 1984, was being built, his wife Marion [Javits] wanted to have a sculpture in honor of Jacob Javits. She had always been this huge fan of Bob’s and asked that Rauschenberg make the work for the center. Bob designed a piece that would be at the entrance lobby, which was a huge frame, maybe 20 feet long and 10 feet high, with sliding panels on which he would silkscreen scenes from Javits’s life and work. And then there would be a control console in front of the sculpture and the public would be able to press buttons to make the panels move. So the public could change what the sculpture would look like. Per Biorn made the design of the mechanism and he made a scale model of the piece. Billy worked on assuring reliability of the movement. He knew that reliability was going to be a big issue for the architects. Billy and Bob went to a meeting with the [Ieoh Ming] I. M. Pei people—Pei’s office was building the center—and it just went nowhere. They were totally not convinced that this was a great idea, that it was reliable enough, that the public should have anything to do with interacting with the sculpture, et cetera. So it just didn’t go anywhere. Then, just to carry the story further, Marion turned to George Segal and George Segal did a sculpture of Javits but since Javits was already dead, George couldn’t do his usual method of direct casting from the person, so he cast an older person—seated I believe—and Marion freaked out at that. “No, he looks too old.” So I think what’s there is a kind of very boring sculpture.