Martin: He was a musician who was working as a piano accompanist at the Cunningham Studio. He’d been at the classes John Cage gave at the New School [New York] in 1957 and ’58 and Cage asked him to give some classes in dance composition at the Cunningham Studio. Dunn used many of Cage’s ideas and techniques in the composition assignments he would give the dancers in his classes. And a lot of the younger people took this class: Steve Paxton, Yvonne Rainer, Deborah Hay, David Gordon, Elaine Summers, and Lucinda, a bit. Dunn told them to bring finished work to class. As they got more and more interested in doing this kind of work, they wanted to show it somewhere. So Steve and Yvonne went to see the Reverend Howard [R.] Moody at the Judson Memorial Church, which was an activist liberal church in Greenwich Village. Tom Wesselmann, Claes Oldenburg, and Jim Dine had had a gallery space in the basement of the church in 1959 and 1960 and had done some performances there before the Reuben Gallery opened. In 1962, they met with [Alvin A.] Al Carmines [Jr.], who had been hired to work with the arts, and they welcomed the dancers, gave them the space to rehearse and then to do performances in the gymnasium and later in the sanctuary. In July 1962, they performed the First Concert of Dance at the church. And I don’t know when Steve got together with Bob but Bob and Steve were living together during this period. And I don’t know how involved Bob was in this Judson thing. Yes and no. But I think he did some lighting or helped with what costumes were used. So he began to know the dancers.
 But he made his first performance, Pelican, in 1963. The story is that it was almost by accident. Alice Denney was doing a Pop art show in March of ’63, again, through Billy. Billy had gone to see her in Washington in the fall of 1962 during a technical conference he was attending and when he heard she was planning a show for the Gallery of Modern Art in D.C., he put her in his car and they drove to see the show he had helped organize in Philadelphia called Art 1963—A New Vocabulary, a sort of proto-Pop show, which included Bob R. and Johns as well as Breer and Fahlström and the more classic Pop artists like Roy and Claes. Her show was called The Popular Image and had Bob and Jasper as well as more of the pure Pop artists. Billy worked with her and made interviews with the artists in the show and produced a 33 [1/3]-rpm record with the interviews with a cover by Andy Warhol. And I think he already knew about the performances and dances at Judson and I think he encouraged her to do performances. So she began to organize performances for what she called the Pop [Art] Festival. And Bob R. says that his name was put down as choreographer by mistake on a press release so he decided he had to do something. And that’s how Pelican was born. That was rehearsed a lot at a skating rink in Brooklyn. He decided to make it hard for himself—put himself on skates—and he asked Per Olof Ultvedt, a Swedish artist, to skate with him. But then he enlisted Carolyn Brown, who was this gorgeous dancer with Merce, and he put her in a sweatsuit and back en pointe so he was playing with these idioms of dance.
 From the very beginning, Pelican was called dance. He had taken part in other performances before Pelican, in an event in Paris in 1961, Homage to David Tudor, a collaborative work. He and Johns and David Tudor were joined by Tinguely and Niki de Saint Phalle and in March of the next year, he joined Tinguely and Niki again and made a set for Steve and Viola Farber as part of Kenneth Koch’s play, The Construction of Boston [1962], where Billy also participated— he and Öyvind playing Napoleonic soldiers. So by the time of Pelican, Bob was ready to do performances. He has said that painting began to lose its power to put him on the spot. He was attracted to live-ness of performance. As he said, he wanted “that awful feeling of being on the spot, having to assume responsibility for that moment, for those actions that happen at that particular time.” He began to make pieces for Judson Dance Theater and in his pieces, he asked friends to participate. You ask Trisha, you ask Steve, you ask Alex and Deborah Hay to be in your pieces. I don’t think they thought, “Oh, I’m a dancer—I can’t be in something where I don’t dance.” You know, someone asks you and you come and you do it. It did change these categories but I don’t think anybody was thinking that way. They were thinking, “I’m a friend of Bob’s. I’ll be in his piece— I’m a friend of Whitman’s. I’ll be in his theater piece.” Steve was in this theater piece in the summer of 1966 because Steve was around and Whitman asked him.