Martin: Well, of course. That’s going from Duchamp’s idea that the viewer completes the work of art. That it’s not complete until somebody sees it and then the act of seeing it completes it.
 That brings the viewer in. I think you are part of the aesthetic decision but within a really narrow range. The artist has conditioned the experience. It’s not like you can do anything. It’s like you walk into Soundings and of course you can remain silent. And if so, then your experience is to see yourself in the mirror. You see yourself as part of the visual image of the piece. If you talk to it or to another person in the room, then you see the lights illuminating the silkscreened chairs. Then if you sing, you get something different. But nothing moves, like Solstice.
 I also think that an important part of a work is what the artist chooses not to do or not to put in it. For Soundings, Bob decided to use only images of a wooden chair, maybe one that had been in his kitchen for a long time. He took many photographs of it and when the lights come on in Soundings it does look as if the chair is tumbling around, but it’s only one chair. That is an aesthetic decision. He made it in black and white. All these—what I call limitations—lead to a singularity and purity amid the multiplicity of lights going off and on as people talk or sing to it. Of course, it was an aesthetic decision that Bob wanted the triggering devices for the lights to respond differently to different people. But he left it up to the engineers, Fred Waldhauer and Cecil [H.] Coker, to figure out how to split the sound spectrum and choose the placement of the microphones, et cetera.
 I see it being about responsibility and commitment. The artist offers you the opportunity to participate in the experience of the work. He makes the experience available to you. It’s up to you how much of your time, energy, intellect you want to commit to experiencing the work—to discovering it in, if not all, at least many, of its dimensions. And it’s an interesting question about interactive art in the sense that people can’t do it for very long. It’s really interesting how long a viewer will talk or clap their hands or sing to Soundings.