Martin: I don’t think Billy thought—no, in the beginning, it’s not the art itself. I think for Billy, it really wasn’t about the art. I mean, he worked with these really wonderful artists and good artists and the value of art was there but, as E.A.T. developed, anyway, it was more the process of people working together on projects—and projects that were not necessarily art but the artist coming out into the society, going even further than his art. So I think there could have been— there was a little bit of that kind of difference. I mean, they didn’t argue about it. But I think in terms of projects that—Bob didn’t become part of the Pepsi Pavilion. He came to one of the early meetings and made some suggestions and some ideas. When he heard many of the ideas the four core artists were coming up with, he saw there were many visual elements and he suggested thinking of an invisible environment with less objects or architecture but other elements of sound, light, et cetera—even suggesting a shallow pool in the middle of the floor that visitors would be invited to wade in. That got the other artists thinking. And Whitman, who had worked with mirrors and worked with large mirrors had sort of pushed things in that direction and that became a feature of a kind of invisible but very rich environment that people could experience on their own and compose their own experience. For all the artists it was important that the viewer could compose his or her own experience. They could listen to the sounds from the floor, they looked in the mirror, they could interact with the mirror, they could watch a performance there, but they would see it from different points of view. They would see themselves from different points of view. But also all four of the core artists didn’t want anything fixed or set like Disney, where you would ride in a little car through a fixed environment. No, the idea of all the four core artists for the pavilion was to have a really rich environment that the people interacted with. The pavilion started with an idea—with a concern for the individual’s experience there.