Martin: In a sense, yes, I think so. Not realizing—since they were in the kind of downtown scene—not realizing that this was something that Broadway could actually use or would be interested in. And then Billy worked with John Cage and Merce Cunningham on Variations V [1965], which was to place electric eyes on stage, aimed at lights offstage. When the dancers broke the beam, a sound was triggered in John’s very complex sound system. Billy was thinking a lot about the whole idea of the engineer working with the artist. And his first idea was—two ideas, I think, were coming together. One, he could offer the artist a new palette. This was in some of the early writings. He talked about a new palette that would expand the possibilities for the artist to work with more contemporary materials and be active in society as it was developing. But very early on, from reading C. P. [Charles Percy] Snow, The Two Cultures [1959], Billy very much was looking for a way to invigorate engineering. I think he felt that engineers had to be—at that point, engineering was quite monolithic and the businesses were very monolithic, the telephone company [Bell Labs], Philips, Thomson-Houston. And so the idea of how do you invigorate the engineers was important to him.
 When he began to work with artists, I think he saw that, a-ha, the way the artist works—not the art but the way the artist works—and the kind of attitudes the artist has toward what he or she does excited him. He saw the artist as being a kind of conduit to get the engineer involved in new ideas and new possibilities. And then as he began to work with Bob, he realized the possibilities of collaboration. He said very much that he went from this idea of the engineer offering something to the artist—the idea that the two would collaborate, one-to-one, two professionals. Two people in different fields but collaborating on something where the outcome might be different from what they started with. I mean, it always started from the artist, obviously. The artist had an idea. Bob’s idea to do a sound piece with certain parameters. But the engineer’s contribution from his own profession, and having him think outside what he normally did every day, could invigorate him in his own profession. But the idea was the collaboration. I remember hearing it when I first got involved. This word was very strange to me because at that point, the only collaboration you knew about was like World War II and it was a negative word. You know, collaborating with the Nazis, for example, in France. It was interesting that this must’ve been a really new concept because even the word was something that—as far as I knew, at least—wasn’t in common parlance. So I think the beginning of this whole idea of collaboration started with Bob and Billy and was very much influenced by Bob’s attitude toward the way he worked.
 [INTERRUPTION]