Martin: Well, first, Bell Labs was a really unique place back then. It was the premier lab for electrical engineering and communications. And it was supported by the fact that AT&T was a monopoly and a regulated monopoly. I mean, protected by the government but also regulated by it. And also, it was vertical. You had AT&T that provided all local and long-distance service. You had Western Electric, which built the equipment. And you had Bell Labs, which developed it. And so there was this kind of flow between all of the divisions of the Bell system. Bell Labs did research for all branches of the Bell system, from developing methods and educating incoming telephone operators to designing and building digital switching systems. And the labs itself was very open. Once you were a researcher, you could choose to a certain extent what you were doing your research on, and you could come and go as you wanted so long as you did some research.
 Bell Labs actually also had an artist-in-residence program. They invited—especially Max [V.] Mathews and John Pierce—musicians to do computer music. Lillian [F.] Schwartz worked with [Kenneth C.] Ken Knowlton at the labs and they collaborated on films, on digital filmmaking. So the researchers who were interested in music and film had their programs and sometimes invited artists to work at the labs. But Billy’s contacts were with New York and very much outside the labs. He brought artists to visit the labs but Bell or AT&T never sponsored what he did. So most of 9 Evenings, which was this—we can talk about that later—was done by the engineers at night, weekends, and vacation time. Toward the end, the week or so before the opening, the engineers took vacation time in order to work on it.
 Many years later, in the nineties, Billy asked John Pierce, “You saw that all this energy was going into this outside project. Why didn’t you stop it?” John Pierce replied that people were so positive about it and there was such a positive energy that if he’d stopped it, it would have had a very negative impact. So he understood the positive value of working on projects with artists. And actually, even earlier when Billy worked with Tinguely in 1960, he told [Rudolf] Rudi Kompfner, who was his boss right above him, but he didn’t tell John Pierce. And of course, it was written up in the New York papers, “the machine that destroys itself.” It was in the Times and in the [New York] Post. And the day after, John Pierce rushed into Billy’s lab. And Billy was like, “Uh-oh, this is it.” And John Pierce said, “There’s only one thing wrong. Why wasn’t I invited?” Then, of course, Pierce went to Stanford [University, California] to the music department—he and Max Mathews—when they retired from Bell Labs. So these two supervisors were very interested in the intersection of engineering and art.