Martin: I think certainly with Billy over the years there was a kind of dialogue with Pontus. And then also Fylkingen, which was a contemporary music society in Sweden. But the music world adopted the new technology really early. With the advent of the transistor and electronics and the change from vacuum-tube technology, so much of it impacted sound: making it, recording it, playing it, broadcasting it, et cetera. I mean, you had a new music program at the WDR [West German Broadcasting] in Germany with [Karlheinz] Stockhausen and those people inviting Cage in ’57, ’58 to come and work there—the Darmstadt [International] Summer Course for New Music. So in Europe, in particular, you had this interest in technology from the music side.
 To go back to ’65, Billy had worked with a number of these artists. He really wanted to expand his activities but he didn’t quite know how to do it. So he started out by thinking to write a book, “Engineering and Art.” He began by writing to artists he knew, asking, “What ideas do you have using new technology?”—thinking that he could introduce artists’ ideas to the engineering community. Then Knut Wiggen, who was head of the Fylkingen music society in Stockholm— probably through Pontus, or maybe he knew Billy independently—contacted Billy with the idea of an American participation in a festival that he was planning called Festival of Art and Technology: Visions of the Now. Could there be an American contribution to this? He wanted to meet John Pierce and invite him to participate along with Buckminster Fuller and Marshall McLuhan. His ideas were a little bit abstract or intellectual. But anyway, Billy went to Bob and said, “There’s this opportunity, what do you think?” And Bob was really excited about it. They put together a group of their artist friends. Billy recruited people at Bell Labs, whom either he had worked with or he knew were experts in certain areas that could be applied to performance, and the artists and engineers started meeting to find a way of working that would lead to performances that incorporated the new technology. They began meeting and working together in January of ’66. And, as I said, unfortunately there was this intellectual difference between the Swedish and American groups that became more and more pronounced and magnified. So the relationship got— When these things happen, everything becomes a problem. From how do you publicize the festival? And how many engineers do you bring to Sweden? So it just became very, very difficult.
 By July it became clear that the American group really was not going to go to Sweden, at which point, in true American style, they said, “Okay, let’s put on the show here, folks. Let’s put on the show here, kids.” The typical Hollywood movie. So they decided to hold the performances in New York. And Simone Forti found the 69th Regiment Armory on Lexington at Twenty-fifth Street and everybody liked it because that’s where the first Armory show in 1913 was held, which introduced European art to America. Despite the fact that it had a six-second echo. So if you stood too far apart, you couldn’t hear each other clearly. Of course, Cage and Tudor made great use of this reverberation time but it made things a bit more difficult. So they decided to do the performances there.