Martin: It’s programmed, I think. She programs it with off and on cycles. If there is a heavy wind, the fog just blows away. And if there is no wind or the wind blows in a certain direction it fogs all the walkways in the back of the building and it gets dangerous for people walking there. Its behavior is dependent on the weather and the off-on cycles vary the configurations it produces and no one fog cloud stays forever. It is continually changing but it’s a definite permanent fixture there. Thanks to Bob.
 I also want to talk about Bob’s support of the project to preserve the archival 16-millimeter footage that was shot at 9 Evenings and to make films of each of the artists’ performances at the 9 Evenings. Around 1995, Billy found the original 16-millimeter film footage from the 9 Evenings in his basement on the point of decay. We wanted to rescue it and use it to make reconstructions of each artist’s work at 9 Evenings. Much of the footage was in small pieces because Billy and Bob R. and Bob Whitman had worked with Alfons Schilling, who shot the footage, to make a film of 9 Evenings in 1967, using about two minutes of each performance.
 First, we worked with the filmmaker Barbro Schultz Lundestam and a rented Steenbeck [film editing machine] that sat in our living room to divide and re-assemble the film pieces into each artist’s performance, in no particular order. Then we had this film material digitized. Billy asked Bob for help and the Rauschenberg Foundation supported the digitization of the material so Barbro could begin editing the footage. A grant from Swedish sources allowed us to finish the video film on Öyvind Fahlström’s Kisses Sweeter than Wine [1966]. She and Billy then went to work on Bob’s performance. Arthur [J.] Williams at the Tape House, a high-end post-production facility, assigned us one of his editors, [Kenneth] Ken Weissman, to work on the films and also supported the online finishing of Öyvind’s film and also the film of Bob’s performance, Open Score. The film was premiered during the opening days of Bob’s retrospective at the Guggenheim in New York in 1997. When fundraising was difficult for the project, Billy asked Bob for ideas for fundraising and Bob generously offered to give E.A.T. a work to sell to finance the films. This made it possible for us to continue the project. I remember we went down to visit him in Captiva a few days after Christmas and thought we should stay over New Year’s and discovered that Bob had no feeling for that holiday and was only concerned that the fireworks and extra noise for the celebration would upset the dogs. I remember Bob talked about being invited by one of his collectors to cruise on their yacht for two weeks that winter and he said no, of course, and commented that he couldn’t imagine doing nothing for two weeks. I think Bob was never not working.
 Also, right after September 11 [2001], I got the idea that Bob could make a print or poster for a benefit that a group of artists was organizing to help artists whose studios and work had been damaged or destroyed. I had the idea that Bob would choose very positive images of New York. But of course, I didn’t say anything like that—just asked him if he’d make a print/poster for the benefit. He agreed immediately and ULAE agreed to print it. To my surprise, he had a very specific image that he wanted to realize. He wanted, very simply, a black and white image of the Twin Towers cradled in the arms of the Statue of Liberty [I Love New York, 2001]. Of course, it was an extremely moving idea combining elegy, comfort, and hope. But I remember it was almost impossible to get an image of the Twin Towers good enough for printing. I remember trying to contact the public information department of the Port Authority [of New York and New Jersey] but of course they had more important survival things on their minds. Finally I found something and I believe that [Laurence] Laury Getford or someone else in Captiva had to digitally restore the base of the image of the towers. And Bob was able to realize what he wanted to convey.