Martin: Bob Rauschenberg. There were so many Bobs in those days. But Bob Rauschenberg’s piece, it started with a tennis game on the floor of the armory. Frank Stella and Mimi Kanarek, who was Frank Stella’s tennis pro, played tennis. The rackets had been modified so that the handle was drilled out and a very small FM transmitter was put in the handle of the racket connected to a contact microphone at the head of the handle. Then around the outside of the racket was a wire antenna. So every time the racket was hit, a very loud “bong!” went through the armory and a light went off. Frank and Mimi played until it got completely dark, at which point a crowd of five hundred people that Bob had recruited from the Downtown Community School and maybe another school—he said, by contributing to their scholarship fund, the parents volunteered—and they came out onto the stage in the dark. The space was lit by infrared light and there were infrared sensitive cameras picking up the activity and projecting it to three screens hung above the audience. So you could feel the presence of this large crowd but you couldn’t see it. You could only see them on screen. And then Bob had very simple instructions that he signaled from the balcony.
 I think David White may have talked about this because he was one of the signalers with flashlights. Two flashlights meant something, three flashlights another. So things like: hug the person next you; take out a white handkerchief; sing a song; turn around. There were very simple movements that people could do. Then at the end—the first time Bob did it, that was the end.
 The lights came up and the people bowed. But then he said that he felt it was too harsh somehow. So he added a third section. When the part with the people ended, they just went off the stage in the dark. Oh, one thing. The first night, as they came in, they were asked to say, “My name is—” And so you had this series of names of people—“my name is so-and-so—my name is so-and-so”—that played over the speakers during the section in which they performed. He had also asked the engineers to tape-record the people saying their names and planned to use that tape for the second performance. But somebody lost the tape— No, they recorded over the tape because they were recording every night. So only about eight names were left. So I think he recorded and played the sound of the loud “bong!” the second night. And the second night he also added a third part. When the crowd was finished, they left the space in the dark and a spotlight followed him and Simone Forti whom he had put in a cloth bag that he carried to different parts of the armory floor. He would put her down and then pick her up and carry her to another part of the armory, as she continued to sing a Tuscan love song that echoed throughout the armory. I remember that, actually, this was something they had done kind of for fun at the after party in December, after the performances on Forty-first Street. I remember that Claes and Patty were doing improvised scenes on the stage. The curtain would open and they’d be in a certain position; then it would close and open to another pose. So they were doing sort of an impromptu performance. What Bob did, he put Simone in a bag that was lying around and then carried her through the party while she was singing. He must have remembered that image and then incorporated it into the piece the second night.