Martin: I graduated from Radcliffe in ’60 and I came to the Russian Institute at Columbia for a master’s and what they called a certificate degree. But I got more interested in looking at things in New York and doing things in New York so I wasn’t the best student. But a guy I was going out with, Robert Fagan, who was a poet and an independent art historian, knew Bob Whitman from Englewood. Bob Fagan was a little bit older but his brother had known Bob and a kid named Hugh Mitchell. So when Whitman put on a performance called American Moon in December of 1960, we went to it.
 I should also say that Bob Whitman knew Bob Rauschenberg very well and he should be another person that you all should get hold of. We were talking about Monogram [1955–59] and he remembers seeing it in the studio when it was on the wall and not on the ground. So I realized he had known Bob early on.
 But anyways, we went to American Moon and I had no idea really what was going on. It was completely different. But I do remember it. And we stayed friends through those years. In the summer of ’65, I was still at but not really going to Columbia. Bob Whitman got a chance to put on, at the Circle in the Square, every weekend, a piece called Prune Flat, which was a movie piece, which—I should go back and say—he did in December of ’65. He, Bob Rauschenberg, and Oldenburg did an evening as a benefit for the Film-Makers’ Cinematheque run by Jonas Mekas. And Bob Whitman did Prune Flat, which was a cinema piece. Bob did Map Room II. And Oldenburg did Moveyhouse. So I had seen some of Bob’s work. Also in May of ’65, Steve Paxton organized a series of performances he called the First New York Theater Rally. And again, Robert and I went to that. Bob Whitman did Nighttime Sky and Rauschenberg did Spring Training, with the turtles with the flashlights on their backs. So I had begun to see stuff at the time.
 Then, when Whitman had this opportunity to present two performances every weekend during that summer at the Circle in the Square Theatre on Bleecker Street in Greenwich Village, I worked as stage manager, which means I swept up the broken glass from the broken light bulb in Prune Flat and I helped stuff Steve Paxton’s suit with colored powder for the ending of this piece he called Untitled. That was ’66. So the work on 9 Evenings was going on that summer but I really wasn’t part of it and I didn’t know about that. But when it came time—when Bob Whitman started thinking about a piece for it—right, in the summer of 1966—he wanted films. So he asked me to find films for him. In particular, I remember he asked me for a film on penguins. And he asked for a nature film. In those days, a lot of the schools were de-accessioning 16-millimeter films. I guess they were old or they were getting new ones. So I found a place on Fifty-seventh Street where you could buy 16-millimeter educational films. Bob used one of those, a film on a splenectomy, in the untitled piece. Then for the new piece, which he was getting ready to do—probably 9 Evenings but also he did it for Midsummer—he wanted more films. Christophe de Menil sponsored a series of performances in East Hampton called Midsummer. That summer Bob Whitman did Two Holes of Water. I think Twyla Tharp did something. Tony Conrad showed the film, The Flicker. And La Monte Young performed that summer. But she did a whole series and so I worked on that with Whitman.
 When the 9 Evenings started, I sort of naturally came around and worked with him but also I got drawn into being a volunteer. Because it was insane. They moved into the armory on October 5th and the first performance was the 13th. So people had to rehearse while the space was being turned into a theater with bleachers, lights, speakers, the special rigging needed by different artists. It was just totally insane so everyone got involved. One of the things I remember doing was soddering connectors onto audio wires, tiny plugs onto audio wires. Because even though a lot of the equipment was wireless—there were wireless transmitters and wireless amplifiers and wireless mics—you still had to get the sound from, say, the FM transmitter to speakers that were up in the balcony. So miles of audio cable all of a sudden were needed. And everyone got recruited. Even John Cage spent a session soldering tiny plugs. I also worked with Pontus on the program, helping to edit it and going to the printer with him. Pontus was here at the time and designed the catalogue.