Martin: Well, Jean started by saying, “I want bicycle wheels.” So that was a mission, for Billy to find bicycle wheels, which he finally found in a shop in New Jersey. Some guy was getting rid of a whole basement full of wheels that they just brought and threw over the wall of the Museum of Modern Art at night. In that case he provided Jean with as many bicycle wheels as he could and Jean could choose how or whether to use them. Jean asked to be taken to the dumps. Jean went with him to the dumps and Jean picked stuff he wanted. I remember him saying he was always surprised at what Jean chose. The piano—I think Jean wanted a piano. Maybe somehow [an] addressograph machine came up as a possibility. But I’m sure Billy would ask Jean, “Is this something you want?” I think he was very sensitive or very aware of what’s the artist’s role and what’s the engineer’s role. And he never thought he was the artist. Never thought he was. I mean, you could suggest something. Or you could [say], “Here’s some batteries.” I think with Bob there was a problem that the only batteries he could get from Bell Labs were bright red and he thought, “Oh, dear.” So Billy brought them to Bob’s. He said, “What do you think?” And Bob said, “Yes, those are great.”
 But he was sensitive to what was an aesthetic question and how the artist worked. As I said, much later when they renovated or restored Oracle, the engineer Per Biorn, who was very active in helping to restore these pieces later on, discovered you could do digital tuning. He could make it so the spectrum went digitally from station to station. But Billy asked Bob, he said, “Per can do this; what do you think? “ And Bob said, “No, I want analog tuning. I want that noise in between stations. I want that sense of noise.” But he did okay other changes. When the French government opened up the FM spectrum to many new stations, he was willing to change the radios from AM—which had been the most populated spectrum in the sixties and seventies—to FM, which made it easier to get the signals into the Centre Pompidou. Then at one point when they were restoring Soundings, Bob was fine with Per’s ideas for updating the mechanisms that triggered the lights off and on. At the same time, Billy asked him, “The mirrors have gotten yellow. They are beginning to oxidize. Do you want new mirrors?” Because when you walk in, all you see is yourself in the mirror. Bob said no. He wanted to keep the original mirrors. He saw this as part of the aging process. So the original mirrors remained. So the point is that Billy always asked the artist when there were choices to be made, even what might seem to be pure engineering choices. I think Billy was really active in drawing the line between an aesthetic— what was the artist’s decision and what was his decision.