Martin: Apparently. I mean, I didn’t remember exactly when I started but the first E.A.T. News on which I’m listed as editor was published November 1, 1967. I had been working for television. When I finally left Columbia—I got my master’s in the fall of 1965—and I worked for CBC [Canadian Broadcasting Corporation] in Ottawa on a program on the Russian Revolution from winter ’66 to spring ’67 and then in fall 1967 at Channel Thirteen, also on a program on the Russian Revolution. During the spring of 1967, I was at CBS, where I worked on a program called “The Walls Come Tumbling Down,” a documentary on several contemporary artists, including Tony Smith and Marta Minujín, an Argentinean artist who was working with
 E.A.T. engineer Per Biorn on an interactive telephone booth she called the Minuphone. Another of the segments was on Rauschenberg and they filmed in the chapel at 381 when the Revolvers were delivered to him from the fabricator and he and Brice Marden, his assistant at the time, were looking at them assembled and working for the first time. Somehow later I got hold of that piece of film and it’s now in the Foundation’s archives.
 So I guess Billy and Fred knew what I’d done from the 9 Evenings, helping Pontus with the program and then later helping Simone with her article for Artforum. I joke and say that most artists are terrible spellers and they knew that I could spell so I had a rare skill to contribute. So they asked me to come and join E.A.T. as editor of the newsletter. And so I did and worked on the newsletter and then more publications like the Some More Beginnings catalogue and Techne, which was a more general publication, which we published when we split E.A.T. News into two parts: Techne, which we called a “projects and process paper,” and E.A.T. Information and Operations, with news and information for artist and engineer members. Techne was the Greek word that meant thought put into practice, practical application of knowledge. I think Billy thought techne could refer to both art and technology, and the subtitle “projects and process” emphasized the commitment to active collaborations in the world. We put out two issues of Techne, which published news about E.A.T. and some of the artists’ projects but also had articles about everything from [Gottfried Wilhelm von] Leibniz’s ideas for an exposition of marvelous machines, to an interview with Claes Oldenburg, to some artists’ projects that might interest engineers to figure out, like [Peter] Pete Seeger’s request for a tunable steel drum, or a paint that youngsters could use to paint on buildings that would disappear in cold weather. It was in this projects section of Techne that we published Bob R.’s suggestions, almost a manifesto, for neighborhood cultural activities. During this time, the Pepsi Pavilion project started and I stayed on to work on general projects through the years.