Martin: Recently, the Foundation for Contemporary Arts—which was initially called the Foundation for Contemporary Performance Arts and was started by Cage and Jasper Johns in 1963, initially to support a season of Merce’s in New York but then expanded to support performance in general—had their fiftieth anniversary. So they started looking at their archives. I was very interested in it and they came to me because actually, the Foundation for Contemporary Arts was like what would now be called fiscal sponsor; we didn’t have those words in those days. They helped sponsor it and the money went to them so that people who donated to it could take a tax deduction.
 I think very early on, as soon as the artists got started, Billy kind of wanted the American group to be independent and he saw that there wasn’t the kind of support or enthusiasm for what they were doing in Sweden. So very early in May, he started going to people to raise money for the American side. Walter [K.] Gutman, who supported dancers, and Vera [G.] List and people like that, people he knew. He began to raise money and it went to the Foundation for Contemporary Arts and then was spent by them. Looking at the chronology, at the point when the Swedish trip collapsed and the group decided to produce the performances here, it was already being called 9 Evenings: Theatre & Engineering. And at that point, the foundation started an independent bank account for 9 Evenings. That was in about August so I think the idea began to be discussed— “Well, we should have our own organization that can take grants and get tax deductions.” So I think the talking plus the excitement about what they were building and the possibility of other artists being able to use the equipment—it was, at this point, pretty much focused on that situation. So on September 26, I think, it was incorporated. I think they wanted to call it something like Engineering in Art or Art in Engineering. But Frank Konigsberg, who was a lawyer, said when he either went to Albany, or researched it, he found that you’re not allowed to call something engineering if you didn’t do engineering. So he came up with the idea of Experiments in Art and Technology. And when everybody heard it, they thought, “Oh, god.” But it was too late, or they just sort of accepted it.