Martin: Well, what happened was after 9 Evenings they decided to find out whether this was something that was interesting to the art community in general—interesting to the artists in New York. There was an enormous amount of interest in the 9 Evenings. A lot of artists got involved helping their friends, and were part of it and came to it. Marcel Duchamp even came. Chuck Close remembers sitting next to him at one of the performance evenings. So the artists and engineers decided to hold a meeting for artists and put out the word—invited artists to come to a meeting at the Broadway Central Hotel [New York]. The artists and the engineers who had participated in 9 Evenings spoke and talked about their experience and asked the audience, “Is this something that’s interesting?” About three hundred people attended the meeting and there were something like eighty requests right away for projects that artists needed help for. So the response from the art community was quite large and spontaneous and the interest in working with engineers was also large. So really from the beginning the ideas for what E.A.T. would do and be went beyond just using the equipment from 9 Evenings.
 The early working out of what E.A.T. would do was, I think, an attempt to respond to the expressed needs of the artists whom they had contact with combined with the more general ideas about the societal possibilities inherent in the artist-engineer collaborations that inspired all four founders of E.A.T. It represented the coming together of the larger ideas that Billy had had since the early sixties about the artist being able to invigorate engineers’ ideas about their own work, with Bob R.’s ideas of the value of the collaboration to close a gap—the isolation of the two communities from each other. For both Whitman and Rauschenberg you had the understanding of the need for the artist to work with new technology—to participate in the developing technological society—and Fred recognized the value of the artist working with engineers who were developing the technology that was increasingly surrounding us. As Billy and Bob R. began to write about the organization—its goals, its structure, and its activities in the first newsletters, they articulated the larger goals: a joint statement in the second E.A.T. News ended with the sentence—let me read it—“E.A.T. is founded on the strong belief that an industrially sponsored, effective working relationship between artists and engineers will lead to new possibilities which will benefit society as a whole.”
 In terms of the organization of E.A.T., I think they were working it out as they went along. In the first newsletter, they wrote that setting up the organization would rely on the “experience derived during the formative period.” And then in a sentence that I’m convinced was largely Bob’s, “The thought behind E.A.T. is that the organization should be generous, adaptable, and helpful.” So then, responding to the artists’ requests, the practical activities of E.A.T. in the early years was to begin to recruit engineers—to find engineers who wanted to work with artists. And then that was going to be the main ongoing effort of the organization, matching artists and engineers to work on the artists’ projects.
 I also want to say that the response was not only from the New York artists but we began to be contacted by artists and engineers around the country who wanted to form E.A.T. local groups. So we said go ahead, and tried to give them advice on ideas and activities we had developed. You could say the idea of artists and engineers working together was an idea whose time had come.