Martin: I think the artists who were interested in using technology were interested in using technology. So it made a difference that they began to have access to engineers who could work with them. I mean, art and technology was never an art movement with a recognizable look like Minimalism or Pop art. It was too varied. Some galleries concentrated on works that incorporate technology like Howard Wise [Gallery, New York], et cetera. But it wasn’t that kind of thing. From a Rauschenberg Oracle, to a Whitman Red Laser Line [1967], to a Nam June Paik television monitor with magnet piece, the works incorporating technology were too diverse. I don’t think Billy ever thought it should be an aesthetic. That wasn’t the idea. It was about collaboration, a process, a way of individuals working together. The idea was to enable the individual artist to make work that he or she wanted to make.
 As we moved into the seventies, we kept the matching system and artists were being matched. We even upgraded it to be key sort cards with knitting needles and holes. And an artist would have a request and then you’d find the five engineers who could work with him and put them together. We began to do things we call Projects Outside Art, which I alluded to earlier, in which the artist was part of a team of experts in different fields to work together on issues in society. As I said, we were invited to India to develop a way to produce educational software for satellite transmission to the villages in India. We did one with Children and Communication in which we experimented with kids getting to know each other without having to leave their neighborhoods. And the other was Rooftop Gardening. We worked with the University of Arizona to design hydroponic pods that could be rooftop gardens with Automation House [New York], and with the UN school [United Nations International School, New York] we tried to introduce it. So these ideas in which the artist was valued, again, for his or her expertise and his or her contribution to problem-solving rather than just making art. I think the difference was, in a way, Rauschenberg was more interested in staying within art. I mean, I think he was more interested in the use of art itself to change the world, the ability of works of art to make this transformation in the individual.
 Certainly ROCI—the project when he went to different countries and either made art in the countries or showed art in the countries—his idea was, again, the individual would be impacted, could be changed by looking at the art itself. I think this was his very specific contribution, slightly different from what Billy and Bob Whitman developed later, I think. Billy worked more closely with Whitman later. Bob Whitman was more involved [with] E.A.T. in the seventies, coming off of the Pepsi Pavilion, and they kind of worked on these ideas.
 I did do something with Bob in 1968 where he was going to host a meeting of the New York City Cultural Commission. They were coming to his house. So he decided to write a proposal listing ideas he had for cultural activities and I helped him get it into form. He argued for localized cultural activities, rooted in each neighborhood, to encourage “participation and involvement by the inhabitants in their specific localized environment.” And he wrote, “All cultural activities should be designed to encourage the personal initiative and sense of responsibility in each individual” to foster “a sense of personal dignity, self-respect and community spirit.” All projects should be directed toward expanding possibilities and they ranged from long-term ideas like finding unused spaces in neighborhoods and developing them into cultural centers to more immediate ideas like projecting movies—some made by local film or TV projects—on whitewashed wall sites, establish community gardens, set up a plan for veterinarians to visit weekly, centers for learning to repair everyday appliances. Another suggestion was to bring in costumes and other theatrical equipment and have volunteers help stage performances that would be videotaped and shown back to the community. These were very new ideas at the time. People weren’t doing this kind of thing yet. His proposal began, “You can’t bring culture to people, you can only bring it out of them.” So again, this idea of inspiring the individual was very strong with him.
 So we talked about Bob’s politics. I don’t think he was political in the way of—he wasn’t political in the way of joining a group or this kind of thing. But he was obviously very liberal. He made posters for, if not [George S.] McGovern [Untitled (McGovern poster), 1972], at least later [Edward M.] Teddy Kennedy [Untitled (Kennedy Campaign 2000), 2000]. He supported the Democratic politics and he supported causes—very early he made an Earth Day poster [1970, the inaugural Earth Day; another in 1990]. And then when Ted Kheel in the early ’90s was involved with the UN Conference on Environment [and Development] in Rio [de Janeiro], Bob not only made a work of art and poster for that [note: both original artwork and print titled Last Turn— Your Turn, 1991] but also attended the sessions. He was using his art in the service of humanity, or in the service of society. I think this was very much his take on it.