Martin: No, I think it comes out of themselves. I mean, obviously, people talk about the first Happening was this thing that they did at Black Mountain where they put together—Merce danced, people stood on ladders and read, and Bob hung his White Paintings and showed films, possibly. They’re not quite sure. Either he hung White Paintings or showed films, or both. But they did other theatrical performances at Black Mountain. Cage played [Erik] Satie. And then Bob worked with the Merce Cunningham company from 1954 on, for ten years, doing sets and costumes and lighting, through the world tour in 1964.
 I think it’s more natural to people that are really interested in the world around them—interested in doing interesting things. Obviously, Cage was really important. I mean, Bob talks about this idea of permission—that Cage, in a sense, gave people permission—but permission to explore things that interested them. And I think people like Steve and Trisha, Lucinda—they were dancers, choreographers. They were making dances. It’s possible that the fact that Robert Dunn was teaching Cagean ideas applied to dance composition, you can read—I’m not an expert on what they actually did—it sparked something in these younger people to make dances based on new ideas, on normal movement—on task, not on virtuosity. But I think it also came out of them and it was sparked possibly by this open situation, or openness to all possibilities. But I’m not an art historian so I don’t like to draw this line. And of course, Cage and Cunningham, although they worked closely, Cage did the music and Cunningham did the dance. And somebody else did the sets. And that, of course, goes back to Diaghilev and Ballets Russes so you can go all the way back to that. Picasso’s sets and costumes for Parade [1917] and all throughout the twenties.
 But I think Cunningham had his own very specific aesthetic for collaboration. He incorporated chance methods into making his dances and asked composers to make music for the dances but the two processes were completely separate and only came together at the rehearsals. The same for the sets and costumes. They were developed independent of the choreography and music. And the Judson Church situation, they were all taking a step into the unknown and it was more fluid and it was more about friends working together, exploring together. They were all younger and they would be in each other’s pieces and they would help each other out.