Martin: I think Bob’s generosity in terms of not only helping friend—which he did, I think, a lot, but other people can talk about that—his support for E.A.T. and his support for what Billy and the others were doing was constant. You could always come to him. You could talk to him. You could ask him. So it wasn’t just money or things. He was available and if you had an issue, he would listen, and his take on situations was extraordinarily clear and extraordinarily helpful.
 I was thinking about what I hadn’t mentioned to you during the other interview. When we did the New York Collection for Stockholm in order to buy the works from the artists and then donate them to Moderna Museet we needed to find a way to raise funds—because it got harder to raise money when the collection was going to a foreign museum. The artists were totally in favor of it but it became more abstract for American patrons. Billy and Bob came up with the idea of a portfolio of prints. We asked each of the thirty artists in the collection to donate a print to a portfolio and the prints were made. At a certain point, Adi Rischner needed to be paid. And so there were about twenty-seven portfolios, maybe more, that hadn’t been sold. So we started talking to a collector couple in Philadelphia about the possibility of their buying it quite inexpensively, et cetera. But they began to make all these conditions—this, that. Bob just got angry. He said, “Forget it. I’m buying them.” He bought them and Adi got paid. Then he wanted to donate them—all of them—to different museums and universities. He asked me to find the places to give them to, which was really great. So I found university museums, colleges, smaller museums, to receive the portfolios, which were great teaching portfolios, with so many artists in it. So it was that kind of thing he just didn’t want to put up with. He didn’t want money or irrelevancies to get in the way of doing something. When you’re committed to do it, you do it.
 Then of course, when he could, he started Change, Inc., which was to provide emergency funds to artists for finishing work for a show or for a medical emergency and it operated with no bureaucracy. As the funding people were getting more and more bureaucratic, his organization asked the artists only to say, “I’m an artist, here are my slides, I need X to do a show,” and if the money was there, the artist got what was needed. So Change, Inc. had this kind of very direct, hands-on—generosity.
 [Note: Change, Inc., founded in 1970, provided small sums of money to artists for non-art emergency expenses such as rent and medical costs.]
 [INTERRUPTION]
 Bob’s generosity. I was talking about Change, Incorporated and the fact that it was very direct. If an artist had an issue with health or was trying to finish a piece or finish something for an exhibition, they could apply and there was no paperwork. “I’m an artist, here are my slides, I need X,” and then if the money was there, the artist got it. So this kind of generosity but with no fancy stuff around it.
 Then, of course, he founded the Rauschenberg Foundation and I believe expanded the causes he gave money to. And of course, Bob made posters—an enormous amount of posters for events and causes throughout his life. This kind of donating work, but also making statements, using his art to make statements. I think his interest in E.A.T. was very much that—the idea that art and artists can make a difference. Working with Billy and then the experience of 9 Evenings and his experience working with engineers on the works he made incorporating technology, he understood that the artist-engineer collaboration can let you make art that can make a difference in the world. This was a common thread throughout his life, finding different ways for art to make a difference.