Martin: Well, I was about to say all of the above, but not the third one. First, I think the process—just being involved in working with an artist and working outside the lab, working in kind of a dirty situation as opposed to, say, the clean, well-organized lab, would have the engineer use his skills differently. But I think Billy felt certain things about the artist, the way the artist works. First, taking full responsibility for the work. In other words, an artist doesn’t make any excuses for what he or she shows. “Oh, I would have done it better if— If my boss had given me more time—” So this idea of responsibility, commitment. You’re committed to a project, you’re committed to a process. These are the kinds of things that the artist had. The sense of scale—human scale. And focus on the individual. Billy thought it was an important thing that the artist was sensitive to. The economy of means that the artist works with. There are no superfluous elements in a work of art. I mean, the painting or the sculpture, it’s what has to be there—what he or she wants to be there. There’s nothing superfluous or decorative, necessarily. So it was, I think, the process and certain aspects of the way the artist works and the artist’s concerns that Billy thought could inspire engineers to think differently, to think more about the individual, think about things that suited the individual more. The art—there’s no sense that you had to understand the art. I mean, you were an engineer and this was an artist and these were two professionals who could come together solving a problem, working on a project.
 I think what’s really interesting, now that I’ve been studying it, is the breakdown of the situation where—the artists were supposed to go to Sweden for the Festival of Art and Technology, which happened in ’66—the breakdown between Billy and Knut Wiggen. Knut Wiggen felt the artist working with the technology would introduce the technology to the public and bring the public or the person looking at the work up to speed about what’s happening in the world that has been changed by the technology. And I think Billy’s idea as an engineer and knowing what the artist was working with—the artists were not working with leading-edge technology. He felt the technology should be almost invisible. What was important was the work of art that came out of it, not that this was some message about technology. Or the fact that it was better because it was embodying new technology. It really was the final work of art, the final image. So I think your last idea is not part of his thinking. The importance of the collaboration didn’t have to do with the art as instruction. It had to do with the process and the commitment to a process and the commitment to building or realizing something.
 Again, that’s why he very much thought about artists and engineers working together without emphasis on scientists. Because he felt science is much more abstract and much more about thinking, whereas the artist and the engineer were both hands-on kind of people—and again, committed to problem-solving. “Let’s get something done. Let’s make something.” So although E.A.T. talked about artists, engineers and scientists, the focus was really on engineering.