Martin: Oh, right. There’s a Japanese artist, Fujiko Nakaya, whom Bob met when he traveled with Merce to Japan during the world tour in ’64. She spoke English and was an artist and very well-connected in the art community in Japan and she was very active in helping them negotiate Japan in those days. So when we were ready to go to Japan for the first time—Billy and the four artists who were designing the Pepsi Pavilion—he told them to look up Fujiko. She’d help them out. So they did and it turned out that she was working with fog, making little fog sculptures.
 From the beginning the artists had wanted to cover the pavilion with fog. We had been given the dome-shaped building and they all hated what it looked like so they were trying to cover it with fog. We had had some amusing tries in the U.S., like using urea—uric acid fog—or dry ice fog, which would have attracted every mosquito in Japan to the pavilion. So when Billy and the artists heard Fujiko talk about her work, they all turned to her and asked her whether she would make a fog sculpture covering the building. And she said yes. So she undertook that project, worked with Japanese meteorologists, and she and Billy finally found a person who had invented a nozzle, which, under pressure, could break up the water in droplets small enough to hang in the air—that is, to make pure water vapor fog. It was a physicist, Tom Mee, in Pasadena, actually.
 He had invented this nozzle but had virtually given up on it, not finding any uses for fog-making.
 E.A.T. and Fujiko commissioned him to develop the system for the pavilion. It used 2,500 nozzles in pipes that were attached to the ridges and valleys of the dome. Fujiko has continued to work with fog ever since. In ’97 Bob went to Japan to accept one of those reat prizes, the emperor’s prize. [Note: Rauschenberg received the Praemium Imperiale for Painting, Japan Art Association, Tokyo in 1998.] He was having dinner with Fujiko—she is this amazing cook—and he asked, “How are you doing? What are you working on?” She said, “Well, I’m doing fog sculptures but I have to have a commission in order to do something that big.” Bob immediately said, “I commission you to make a fog sculpture for my opening in Bilbao—it’s in two months.” And as Fujiko tells the story she said to herself, “It’s impossible.” But to Bob, of course, she said, “Yes.” She worked with a fog-making company in Switzerland, visited the site, made wind measurements, and decided where to place the strands of fog-producing nozzles. She placed the strands of nozzles under the bridge at the back of the lake behind the building. At the opening, this incredible, beautiful fog rolled across the lake in back of the building, rolled across the lake climbing the back wall of the building. Sometimes, when the wind changed, the fog bank would roll the other way and float down the river. It was there for the opening and then Bob bought the sculpture and donated it to Bilbao. So it’s permanently installed there. At one point, I guess the day after the opening, Fujiko said she was talking to Bob and Bob says, “You realize you’ve made a fog, F. O. G. “And she said, “Oh, my god—Frank O. Gehry.” She hadn’t seen that but of course Bob did immediately.