Martin: Billy Klüver. He always loved to say he was born in Monaco because his father had gone to Spain to be a timber merchant and met his mother, who was on the grand tour. They met in San Sebastian and fell in love and got married. But his father got the flu so they ended up at the nearest good hospital, in Monaco, which in now Princess Grace Hospital, and Billy was born there. But two weeks later they went back to Sweden. His father first owned a hotel, on land between two beautiful lakes in southern Sweden in a town called Ed, for a while. And then his father, who was Norwegian and grew up in Steinkjer, Norway, missed the snow and the skiing and so in the thirties he built a ski hotel at a place called Sälen in Sweden. And so Billy grew up in Ed and then in Sälen and then later, when his parents divorced, in Stockholm. He went to the Kungliga Tekniska högskolan, the technical university in Stockholm and majored in electrical engineering. But he soon exercised his interest in film and, as I said, he went across town to the humanities faculty and joined this student film club, which at that time was very active and one of the more liberal or progressive groups of people in Stockholm. Not as progressive as the Communist party or the Socialist party but still very active. He joined the film club and soon, a few years later, became the head of the film club and was importing movies from the United States. And avant-garde movies—Maya Deren, the Whitney brothers, and some that had already been identified in the forties as being the forefront of independent filmmaking. So he knew that world.
 He said he came to the United States because he wanted to see what it looked like. He had seen it in films so he was curious. And in ’53, he spent a year in Paris as a stagiaire for Thomson- Houston. Worked with Jacques Cousteau on the first underwater television and also installed the first television antenna on the Eiffel Tower. So he was pretty active that year. And when he was old enough not to be subject to the draft, he came to the U.S. At that time, McCarthyism was in full swing, in ’54. So he decided he didn’t really want to join a lab at that point because they were subject to being invaded by [Senator Joseph] McCarthy [government agents]. And one of the things—actually, I should back up just a little.
 For his senior thesis he made a film instead of writing a research paper. He made an animated film called Motion of Electrons in Electric and Magnetic Fields. Using the Disney method of the cells, he made these little electrons do what they do when they’re affected by these forces. So he got very interested in educational films. He translated his film into English so he had an English soundtrack. When he first came to this country, he tried to pursue this as an idea—educational films for that higher level of learning. He went to Encyclopedia Britannica in Chicago and to the people in Hollywood but nobody wanted to do educational films at that level. So because of the McCarthyism rampant even at the nation’s research laboratories, he decided not to join a lab but to get his PhD. So he went to California and got his PhD at [University of California] Berkeley in three years, partly so fast because he knew the required number of languages and he worked fast. And then he taught for one year.
 Then in ’58, he was hired by Bell Labs to be a member of technical staff at Murray Hill, New Jersey. So he came east. He continued his contacts with the film people—Amos Vogel in Cinema 16 and some of the other film activities going on in New York. But I think the involvement with the art world came through his friendship with Pontus Hultén, who by that time was director of Moderna Museet in Stockholm. Pontus had also spent a year in Paris but I think it was ’54, ’55 where he had curated a show called Le Mouvement for Denise René gallery. And Jean Tinguely was part of it, as was Robert Breer, who was an American artist on a GI Bill [Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944] in Paris at the time. Pontus knew this crowd of French people. Billy said he’d been introduced to Jean Tinguely by Pontus at the Café Royale on Boulevard Saint-Germain as “the man who made anti-television sets.” Pontus sent Billy a letter saying, “Jean is coming to town and he has some ideas. He needs help.” Jean had a show at the Staempfli Gallery, where he showed his Méta-matic drawing machines. Billy went to the first show, met him and started talking to him. And Jean said he wanted to do a performance with a machine that destroyed itself. His first idea was to do it in a theater and the audience would be protected by chicken wire or something from the flying parts. But Tinguely met Dore Ashton, who was a curator at MoMA at the time, and she arranged for him to do this in the garden at the Museum of Modern Art.
 There was also a [Richard Buckminster] Bucky Fuller dome on display in the garden and Jean built the sculpture in the dome. He and Billy talked about ideas about the machine and the performance of its destruction of itself. Billy and his colleagues at Bell Labs came up with the idea of a timing device that every three minutes would trigger an electrical signal that could do something toward the destruction. If you put a resistor in a candle, then it could light the candle. And the candle would start burning and then kerosene would fall on the candle. And that would light the piano on fire. The piano would start burning. So then Jean thought of about nine different activities that could lead to this destruction.
 At some point, Bob Rauschenberg came by. Now, as I said, I never asked Billy how he met Bob. It was one of these things that you forget to ask. But it’s possible at that point. Maybe [they met] at the Staempfli opening because everybody came to these things in those days. But in any case, Bob did come by and see what was going on and he offered to contribute to the machine. And on the day of the performance, which was March 17, 1960, he brought this contraption called The Money Thrower, which was a sturdy box with gunpowder at the bottom and coils intertwined. When the gunpowder was ignited, the explosion would fling the coils apart and the dollars, which were stuck between the coils, would be flung into the audience. As I said, I never figured out exactly how it worked. That’s for a conservator now to look at that. But obviously, it hooked up to the electricity that the machine was hooked up to and it was one of the events.
 Billy’s experience with Tinguely made him realize that he, as an engineer, could contribute to artist’s work. This could be something that he would like to do very much and that the artist could benefit. So he began to talk to people he met, like Jasper Johns and Bob Rauschenberg; “Is there something you want to do that could use the technology that I know about?” Bob had some ideas and they started talking. Bob’s first idea was an environment that would respond to the presence of the viewer but the technology wasn’t up to that in 1960. He and Billy settled on a sound piece. He’d done a painting, a Combine painting, I guess, in 1959 called Broadcast, which had a radio behind the canvas and knobs in the front that connected to little pulleys in the back. By moving the knobs, you could adjust the sound and I think you could adjust the scan rate. Bob had the idea to do this on a bigger scale—a large painting with five radios and the controls would be in front of the painting and people could turn knobs and control the sound. He wanted the control console further away from the painting but he didn’t want any wires connecting it to the painting so, again, the technology in those days wasn’t developed enough for Bob’s idea. He wanted to use the AM radio band because that was where all the lively stations were located and he wanted no wires. So that AM signal came in through the radio and then they tried to retransmit the signals, either on AM or on FM, but the interference was horrendous so it wasn’t really possible with the first system they constructed. Bob got a little impatient and the painting went out of the studio as Ace. It’s a five-part painting called Ace and it went into the world as a painting. Bob decided that the work would be a five-piece sculpture.
 One of the things that did come out of this early work was a small sculpture called Dry Cell. It’s a piece that hangs on the wall, a kind of wire frame with a Plexiglas front with images silkscreened on the Plexiglas. There’s a microphone mounted on the Plexiglas and if you speak into it, a little metal thing behind the Plexi turns. And the more you speak, the faster it rotates. It may be the first interactive work of art. This piece may have come out of Bob working with Billy and Harold Hodges on some of the technology they were working on for Oracle. That was ’63. So then slowly technology caught up to them and by ’65, Heathkit had wireless FM transmitters that you could build that they could use for the piece. So then the five radios were located in one piece, a staircase that Bob asked Billy to have fabricated. The FM wireless transmitters were in the stair piece, transmitting sound from the radios to amplifiers and speakers in each of the other four pieces. So that Oracle was ready to go. And it was shown at Castelli in May of ’65, the same day Billy’s daughter was born. He went from the hospital to the opening.
 But during this period, he began to work with other artists. Jasper Johns wanted a neon letter. But again, he didn’t want wires to connect it to the wall. So, again, working with colleagues at Bell Labs, they devised a—using a car battery and a step transformer, they could transform it from DC to AC and bring it up to the number of volts you need to power a neon tube letter. The first one was an R for Slow Field [1962] and then he wanted an A for another painting. Billy was waiting for the T but Jasper never wanted the final T.
 Billy worked with Yvonne Rainer, who wanted the sounds of her body to be heard as she was dancing. And so they used a microphone that could fit at her throat attached to a small FM transmitter—again, built from scratch—that she wore at her waist. There was no such thing as wireless mics in those days. The sound of her breathing went to the transmitter and then was transmitted to the speakers.