Martin: Yes, except that with Bob it was never just one thing going on at a time because at the same time, from 1971 to 1973, they did the New York Collection for Stockholm project. I mean, Bob was still involved. I think he was no longer chairman of the board of directors. He decided he had other commitments. But when we started to do the New York Collection for Stockholm, he was very present in that and was part of so many of the decisions. When we decided to make a portfolio, the idea was let’s make the prints small; the prints are 9 by 12 inches. And we started out saying only black-and-white, or as Whitman put it, one-strike prints. But of course, once the artists got started, the prints were all over the place. Segal made a record and Andy Warhol a photocopy print that used the copy made by the machine as the original for the next print. And the image, a drawing of Mao, changed radically over the edition. Bob’s print was a preparatory drawing he had made for the Combine, Monogram, which Billy had encouraged him to sell to Moderna Museet and which the museum acquired in 1964. [Note: lithograph and two-color screenprint for the portfolio titled Sketch for Monogram, 1959, 1973] The New York Collection portfolio was to be housed in a Honduras mahogany box, built by Peter Ballantine, who worked in wood for Donald Judd. But soon Honduras mahogany became scarce and was declared an endangered wood. So Bob helped design a cardboard slipcase for the portfolio, choosing the material and colors.
 So it wasn’t a break. I don’t think there’s a break. I mean, E.A.T., again—less funding, we weren’t as active, et cetera—so there wasn’t as much to do.
 But certainly with the New York Collection, Bob was right there when we held the dinner in 1972 for Princess Christina of Sweden who was a patroness of the collection. We organized a showing of the works in the collection at the Castelli, [Ileana] Sonnabend, and John Weber galleries at 420 West Broadway, followed by a dinner at Bob’s place at 381 Lafayette in her honor. For the opening of the New York Collection for Stockholm at Moderna Museet a year later, we organized a charter flight for the artists and patrons of the collection and of course, Bob came on that flight with us. He came to Sweden, he was part of it. So it varied.
 But I do think there are two—they’re slightly different. I think Bob really did believe in this. And I don’t say Billy didn’t believe in the power of art—that’s not what I’m saying—but the focus was on getting the people together to make the art. And Bob, as he began to make more and more of his art and then use it in different ways, this idea that it really could change people. Well, with ROCI in particular, he used his art, and showing his art in the different countries, to change people’s ideas. I mean, both of them were part of, I think, this incredible utopian excitement of the sixties. I mean, the sixties began—it began in politics as well. You know, the Civil Rights movement and anti–Vietnam War movement, Students for a Democratic Society too. But this idea that we really can change things—the whole thing—all of these groups really felt they could change the society for the better. I think E.A.T. was very much part of that. And the ideas of it—it wasn’t about putting lights in sculptures. It was really about changing the society. I think that Billy and Bob shared this. And each one continued to do it in his own way.