Contributions Are Listed While 20 helium-filled pillows floated eerily in a two-story room called "the Chapel," the need for bringing artist and technologist together was stressed in speeches by Senator Jacob K. Javits, a traditionalist who sees merit in modern art; Ralph C. Gross, president of the Commerce and Industry Association; Edwin Langsam, film projection supervisor of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company; Herman D. Kenin, head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s new Scientific, Professional and Cultural Employees Council, and Dr. Warren Brodey, a psychiatrist, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A.T.& T., the International Business Machines Company, the Atlantic Richfield Corporation and various labor groups are among the organizations that have made $1,000 contributions for furthering the cooperation between artists and engineers. But Mr. Gross urged industry to enlarge "the less than 3 cents of each corporation-contribution dollar that goes to the arts." "Along with its obligation to be a profit-maker for its owners, the modern business corporation has an obligation to be a good citizen in the community," he said. "As a basic part of this obligation, the corporation must examine carefully its responsibility to support the arts." In explaining the unions' interest in art and engineering, Mr. Kenin, who is head of the musicians' union, said that union members were concerned about a "growing chasm" between disciplines, the "growing impersonalization" of work and the frustrations faced by many individuals in seeking to make "valuable contributions." He noted that union members were also consumers, members of audiences and citizens concerned with the quality of society. The event served to dramatize a drive to win organizational support for the art-technology merger and to mark the transfer of Еxperiments in Art and Technology, Inc., a nonprofit organization of artists and engineers, to the new Automation House being prepared at 49 East 69th Street. Automation House will be the center of the American Foundation on Automation and Employment, headed by Mr. Kheel and concerned with human problems caused by automation -- notably the problem of individual "isolation." Dr. Brodey, who heads M.I.T.'s science camp. for underprivileged youngsters, noted that new technologies had opened large new areas of creativity. While the industrial revolution "averaged the people," he said, the great strides made in science and engineering had opened "a new potential for living in a personalized environment if we merely can think our way out of the old mass-production mentality." He added: "It is the artist who has the capacity to make personalized products that grow in meaning as they become more familiar. The artist has learned to use as his material the familiar that is outside the 'accepted system.' By his slight shifts, relevance and meaning emerge from the hackneyed." Dr. Klüver, the laser specialist, stressed his belief that the art-technology merger should primarily be aimed at "catalyzing the individual's responsibility for the new technology." In pursuing this end, the 40-year-old scientist, a thin, blond man who came here from Sweden in 1954, has long assisted artists in developing new modes of expression. 

