BACKGROUND
 Experiments in Art and Technology is a non-profit, tax-exempt organization formed out of the collaborative effort that resulted in the "9 Evenings: Theatre and Engineering" at the 69th Regiment Armory in New York City in October 1966. The "9 Evenings" was the culmination of ten months interaction between 40 engineers and l0 artists. As a result, equipment was designed and built for ten new theatre, dance and music works, and was viewed by an audience of 10,000. The UNIQUE equipment was designed and built at a cost of $35,000, not counting THE [a large portion of] contributed [help] MAN HOURS. [It] THIS EQUIPMENT is now the property of E.A.T. and is being made available to other artists. M.I.T. Technology Press will publish a book on "9 Evenings". A [30] 25 minute film of the performance is also available.
 In December 1966 a meeting was announced to artists in New York City to find out if E.A.T. could act as an organization for bringing artists closer to the technical world. Over 300 artists, critics and engineers participated in this meeting. Seventy-five artists had immediate technical problems. Since then, E.A.T has received 300 applications from artists ALL OVER THE WORLD with [technical] projects, INVOLVING TECH [all over the world]. 
 The interest in E.A.T. has not been limited to the artistic community. Numerous educators, universities and individuals have expressed their interest AND SUPPORT. Тo keep everyone informed of the progress, [in establishing E.A.T.,] a newsletter is published.
 The program and organization of E.A.T. has developed out of some 10,000 hours ENGINEERING experience from "9 Evenings" and subsequent artist-engineer collaborations.
 A grant of $8000 has been given to E.A.T. by the New York State Council on the Arts to cover initial administrative expenses.
 An agreement has been entered into with the American Foundation on Automation and Employment in which E.A.T. will receive executive office space FACILITIES in the Foundation's new building at 49 East 68th Street. [The Foundation will also assist E.A.T. by contacts within industry and labor unions.]
