CHRISTIE'S of LONDON THE FOLLOWING LOTS ARE OFFERED FOR SALE LOT 1: FOKKER DR-1 TRIPLANE, uncovered untreated number two pine sterling milled to scale, tacked with hot glue, fastened with number two round head blued screws, three sixteenth inch bolts, steel reinforced landing gear, movable plywood wheels, sixteen inch black rubber tires, one half inch hot rolled steel axel, white simulated plastic cowl, movable red simulated plastic propeller, six foot doubled rubber motor, white vacum formed pilot, sixteen foot wing span, approximately three hundred and fifty pounds. LOT 2: S.E. 5A SCOUT BIPLANE, same as above, eighteen foot wing span, about three hundred pounds. LOT 3: S.E. 5A SCOUT BIPLANE, same as above. LOT 4: GIANT MODEL BOX, synthetic paint on heavy linen canvas, pine frame, approximately four by ten by one foot. NOTE: Other Lots relating to the theme of the exhibition will be added at the time of the auction. CONDITIONS OF SALE 1. The highest Bidder to be the Buyer; and if any dispute arises between two or more Bidders, the Lot so in dispute shall be immediately put up again and re-sold. 2. The Auctioneer has the right to advance the bidding at his absolute discretion. 3. The Purchasers to give their Names and Places of Abode and to pay down 25 cents in the dollar, or more, in part-payment, or the whole of the Purchase-Money, if required; in default of which, the Lot or Lots so purchased to be immediately put up again and re-sold. Purchase money must absolutely be paid on delivery. 4. E.A.T., Inc. and Christie's of London are not responsible for the correct description, genuineness, authenticity of or any fault or defect in any Lot and make no warranty whatsoever. 5. (a) The Lots are to be taken away at the Buyer's expense and paid for within THREE DAYS from the sale. (b) Upon the failure of a Buyer to take away and pay for any Lot in accordance with this condition, the money deposited in part payment shall be forfeited and at the entire option and discretion of E.A.T., Inc., and without prejudice to any other rights or remedies any such Lot may be re-sold by public or private Sale, and the deficiency (if any) attending such re-sale shall be made good by the said defaulting Buyer. [PAGE BREAK] 