{BLOCK 0}
 FOUNDATION FOR CONTEMPORARY PERFORMANCE ARTS, INC. 18 EAST 8TH STREET NEW YORK. N. Y. 10003
 August 29, 1966
 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20554
 Gentlemen: Attention: Mr. Ben F. Waple, Secretary
 Attached hereto are duplicate preparations of Forms 403 and 440, with which we seek authority for a short-term, experimental transmission program, in the Experimental Radio Service, pursuant to Rule Part 5.202d, where the proposed experiment would require a research communications capability as an adjunct to a non-radio research study involving technological expressions of art forms. In the proposed experiment, the communications capability would provide means for the control of 1ighting, sound, motors and music, to develop aesthetic environments and would demonstrate the capability of technology to provide a new dimension in the expressive arts. The communications function we seek could, we feel, best be accomplished by providing transmission to a multiplicity of portable FM broadcast band receivers, from 15 similar crystal-controlled portable transmitters, of 10 mW input power rating, operating into foreshortened whips. These transmitters would be carried on the persons of performers whose movements would be confined to a space' some 100 by 100 feet in the center of the 69th Infantry Regiment Armory building, located at 68 Lexington Avenue in New York City, or the transmitters may be used in connection with the communication system described in the attached Exhibit 4 and used within the same area.
 The duration of the proposed experimental study would not exceed 16 days commencing on October 8th and terminating on October 23, 1966. During the study, the public will be invited to observe the performances from October 13 to October 23.
 The times of day in which the proposed experiment would be repeated are 8:30-12:00 p.m.  However, intermittent testing to verify that all units are functional may require as much as three hours additional per day, during the period October 8 to October 23. 
