{BLOCK 1}
 Mr. B. F. Waple - 2
 We have carefully examined the probability of interference to FM broadcasters from this operation and conclude that the probability of such interference is extremely unlikely. We cite as evidence of this conclusion, measurements made external to the armory where the experiment is to be conducted, on the field strength of FM broadcast stations, of which WVNJ is typical, which produce field intensities as shown in the attached Exhibit 6. Since the frequencies we seek do not immediately overlie or interfere with the assigned frequencies of the local FM outlets, additional protection to their operations is provided. In laboratory measurements in shielded locations, we have found that the six db per octave attenuation of the primary transmitter emission, from the foreshortened whip antenna-equipped 10 mW sources, produce fields not in excess of 250V per meter at a distance of 200 feet. At the same distance, the licensed broadcast emissions produce 50,000 V/m. Since 200 feet is just outside the perimeter of the building structure, where experimental authority is sought, corresponding attenuation with distance should make the contribution of the portable units to the ambient provided by the broadcast outlets, undiscernible at any location where the use of an FM receiver for broadcast listening is geographically feasible. 
 We appreciate that the Commision may find difficulty in reconciling its obligation to protect the broadcaster from interference by other nonbroadcast users. Nonetheless, we urge that the Commission accept our assurances that interference in this case is unlikely, that no regular operation is con- templated, that no objective is sought but that which may devolve to the general benefit of the public. 
 We have shown in the attached Exhibits how the proposed experiment will be conducted, but no amount of technical description can properly deal with the expressive arts. In this regard, we crave the Commission's indulgence to appreciate what we propose to accomplish, by offering to demonstrate to the Commission how this experiment will assist in the development of a new aesthesis. We would be happy to make this demonstration at the convenience of the Commission, either prior to or during the public demonstration. 
